##### 852.211-71 Special notice. #####

As prescribed in 870.112, insert the following provision:

Special Notice (JAN 2008)

*Descriptive literature.* The submission of descriptive literature with offers is not required and voluntarily submitted descriptive literature that qualifies the offer will require rejection of the offer. However, within 5 days after award of the contract, the contractor will submit to the contracting officer literature describing the equipment he/she intends to furnish and indicating strict compliance with the specification requirements. The contracting officer will, by written notice to the contractor within 20 calendar days after receipt of the literature, approve, conditionally approve, or disapprove the equipment being proposed. The notice of approval or conditional approval will not relieve the contractor from complying with all requirements of the specifications and all other terms and conditions of this contract. A notice of conditional approval will state any further action required of the contractor. A notice of disapproval will cite reasons therefore. If the equipment is disapproved by the Government, the contractor will be subject to action under the Default or Termination for Cause provision of this contract. However, prior to default or termination for cause action the contractor will be permitted a period (at least 10 days) under that clause to submit additional descriptive literature on equipment originally offered or descriptive literature on other equipment. The Government reserves the right to require an equitable adjustment of the contract price for any extension of the delivery schedule necessitated by additional descriptive literature evaluations.

(End of provision)