##### ยง 1206.154 Determination of quantities and qualities for computing royalties. #####

(a)(1) Royalties shall be computed on the basis of the quantity and quality of unprocessed gas at the point of royalty settlement approved by BLM or BSEE for onshore and OCS leases, respectively.

(2) If the value of gas determined pursuant to ยง 1206.152 of this subpart is based upon a quantity and/or quality that is different from the quantity and/or quality at the point of royalty settlement, as approved by BLM or BSEE, that value shall be adjusted for the differences in quantity and/or quality.

(b)(1) For residue gas and gas plant products, the quantity basis for computing royalties due is the monthly net output of the plant even though residue gas and/or gas plant products may be in temporary storage.

(2) If the value of residue gas and/or gas plant products determined pursuant to ยง 1206.153 of this subpart is based upon a quantity and/or quality of residue gas and/or gas plant products that is different from that which is attributable to a lease, determined in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section, that value shall be adjusted for the differences in quantity and/or quality.

(c) The quantity of the residue gas and gas plant products attributable to a lease shall be determined according to the following procedure:

(1) When the net output of the processing plant is derived from gas obtained from only one lease, the quantity of the residue gas and gas plant products on which computations of royalty are based is the net output of the plant.

(2) When the net output of a processing plant is derived from gas obtained from more than one lease producing gas of uniform content, the quantity of the residue gas and gas plant products allocable to each lease shall be in the same proportions as the ratios obtained by dividing the amount of gas delivered to the plant from each lease by the total amount of gas delivered from all leases.

(3) When the net output of a processing plant is derived from gas obtained from more than one lease producing gas of nonuniform content, the quantity of the residue gas allocable to each lease will be determined by multiplying the amount of gas delivered to the plant from the lease by the residue gas content of the gas, and dividing the arithmetical product thus obtained by the sum of the similar arithmetical products separately obtained for all leases from which gas is delivered to the plant, and then multiplying the net output of the residue gas by the arithmetic quotient obtained. The net output of gas plant products allocable to each lease will be determined by multiplying the amount of gas delivered to the plant from the lease by the gas plant product content of the gas, and dividing the arithmetical product thus obtained by the sum of the similar arithmetical products separately obtained for all leases from which gas is delivered to the plant, and then multiplying the net output of each gas plant product by the arithmetic quotient obtained.

(4) A lessee may request ONRR approval of other methods for determining the quantity of residue gas and gas plant products allocable to each lease. If approved, such method will be applicable to all gas production from Federal leases that is processed in the same plant.

(d)(1) No deductions may be made from the royalty volume or royalty value for actual or theoretical losses. Any actual loss of unprocessed gas that may be sustained prior to the royalty settlement metering or measurement point will not be subject to royalty provided that such loss is determined to have been unavoidable by BLM or BSEE, as appropriate.

(2) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(1) of this section and ยง 1202.151(c), royalties are due on 100 percent of the volume determined in accordance with paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section. There can be no reduction in that determined volume for actual losses after the quantity basis has been determined or for theoretical losses that are claimed to have taken place. Royalties are due on 100 percent of the value of the unprocessed gas, residue gas, and/or gas plant products as provided in this subpart, less applicable allowances. There can be no deduction from the value of the unprocessed gas, residue gas, and/or gas plant products to compensate for actual losses after the quantity basis has been determined, or for theoretical losses that are claimed to have taken place.