##### § 2553.12 Definitions. #####

Link to an amendment published at 83 FR 64654, Dec. 17, 2018.

(a) *Act.* The Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973, as amended, Pub. L. 93-113, Oct. 1, 1973, 87 Stat. 396, 42 U.S.C. 4950 *et seq.*

(b) *Adequate staffing level.* The number of project staff or full-time equivalent needed by a sponsor to manage NSSC project operations considering such factors as: number of budgeted volunteers, number of volunteer stations, and the size of the service area.

(c) *Assignment.* The activities, functions or responsibilities to be performed by volunteers identified in a written outline or description.

(d) *Chief Executive Officer.* The Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation appointed under the National and Community Service Act of 1990, as amended, (NCSA), 42 U.S.C. 12501 *et seq.*

(e) *Corporation.* The Corporation for National and Community Service established under the NCSA. The Corporation is also sometimes referred to as CNCS.

(f) *Cost reimbursements.* Reimbursements budgeted as Volunteer Expenses and provided to volunteers to cover incidental costs, meals, transportation, volunteer insurance, and recognition to enable them to serve without cost to themselves.

(g) *Letter of Agreement.* A written agreement between a volunteer station, the sponsor, and person(s) served or the person legally responsible for that person. It authorizes the assignment of a RSVP volunteer in the home of a client, defines RSVP volunteer activities, and specifies supervision arrangements.

(h) *Memorandum of Understanding.* A written statement prepared and signed by the RSVP project sponsor and the volunteer station that identifies project requirements, working relationships and mutual responsibilities.

(i) *National Senior Service Corps (NSSC).* The collective name for the Foster Grandparent Program (FGP), the Retired and Senior Volunteer Program (RSVP), and the Senior Companion Program (SCP), and Demonstration Programs established under Parts A, B, C, and E, Title II of the Act. NSSC is also referred to as the “Senior Corps”.

(j) *Non-Corporation support (required).* The percentage share of non-Federal cash and in-kind contributions required to be raised by the sponsor in support of the grant, including non-Corporation federal, state and local governments and privately raised contributions.

(k) *Non-Corporation support (excess).* The amount of non-Federal cash and in-kind contributions generated by a sponsor in excess of the required percentage.

(l) *Performance measures.* Indicators intended to help determine the impact of an RSVP project on the community, including the volunteers. Performance measures currently include, but are not limited to, the following performance indicators:

(1) *Output indicator.* The amount or units of service that RSVP volunteers have completed, or the number of people the project has served. An output indicator does not provide information on benefits or other changes in the lives of the volunteers or the people served.

(2) *Outcome indicator.* Specifies a change that has occurred in the lives of the people served or the volunteers. It is an observable and measurable indication of whether or not a project is making progress toward its outcome target.

(m) *Project.* The locally planned and implemented RSVP activity or set of activities in a service area as agreed upon between a sponsor and the Corporation.

(n) *Qualified individual with a disability.* An individual with a disability (as defined in the Rehabilitation Act, 29 U.S.C. 705 (20)) who, with or without reasonable accommodation, can perform the essential functions of a volunteer position that such individual holds or desires. If a sponsor has prepared a written description before advertising or interviewing applicants for the position, the written description may be considered evidence of the essential functions of the volunteer position.

(o) *Service area.* The geographically defined area approved in the grant application, in which RSVP volunteers are recruited, enrolled, and placed on assignments.

(p) *Sponsor.* A public agency or private non-profit organization, either secular or faith-based, that is responsible for the operation of an RSVP project.

(q) *Trust Act.* The National and Community Service Trust Act of 1993, as amended, Public Law 103-82, Sept. 21, 1993, 107 Stat. 785.

(r) *United States and States.* Each of the several States, the District of Columbia, the U.S. Virgin Islands, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam and American Samoa, and Trust Territories of the Pacific Islands.

(s) *Volunteer station.* A public agency, secular or faith-based private non-profit organization, or proprietary health care organization that accepts the responsibility for assignment and supervision of RSVP volunteers in health, education, social service or related settings such as multi-purpose centers, home health care agencies, or similar establishments. Each volunteer station must be licensed or otherwise certified, when required, by the appropriate state or local government. Private homes are not volunteer stations.

[64 FR 14135, Mar. 24, 1999, as amended at 69 FR 60095, Oct. 7, 2004; 76 FR 20246, Apr. 12, 2011]