##### § 304.1 General provisions. #####

(a) This subpart contains the rules that the Administrative Conference of the United States (“ACUS” or “the agency”) follows in processing requests for disclosure of records under the Freedom of Information Act (“FOIA” or “the Act”), 5 U.S.C. 552, as amended, and in meeting its responsibilities under the Act. Note that electronic records are treated as records for the purposes of the FOIA. These rules should be read together with the text of the FOIA itself, which provides additional information about access to records maintained by the agency. They also may be read in conjunction with the agency's “Freedom of Information Act Reference Guide,” which provides basic information about use of the Act in relation to the agency's records. Requests made by individuals for access to records about themselves under the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552a (2006 & Supp. II 2008), which are processed under subpart B of this part, are also processed under this subpart. The agency will automatically process the request under both provisions in order to provide the maximum possible records to the requester. Information routinely provided to the public as part of a regular agency activity (for example, press releases or recommendations adopted by the agency pursuant to the Administrative Conference Act, 5 U.S.C. 591 *et seq.*) may be provided to the public without following this subpart.

(b) As a matter of policy, ACUS makes discretionary disclosures of records or information exempt from disclosure under the FOIA whenever it is determined that disclosure would not foreseeably harm an interest protected by a FOIA exemption, but this policy does not create any right enforceable in court.

(c) The agency has designated its General Counsel as its Chief FOIA Officer, who has agency-wide responsibility for efficient and appropriate compliance with the FOIA and these implementing regulations. The General Counsel has designated the agency's Deputy General Counsel as its FOIA Public Liaison.