##### ยง 1.1312-7 Basis of property after erroneous treatment of a prior transaction. #####

(a) Paragraph (7) of section 1312 applies if the determination establishes the basis of property, and there occurred one of the following types of errors in respect of a prior transaction upon which such basis depends, or in respect of a prior transaction which was erroneously treated as affecting such basis:

(1) An erroneous inclusion in, or omission from, gross income, or

(2) An erroneous recognition or nonrecognition of gain or loss, or

(3) An erroneous deduction of an item properly chargeable to capital account or an erroneous charge to capital account of an item properly deductible.

(b) For this section to apply, the taxpayer with respect to whom the erroneous treatment occurred must be:

(1) The taxpayer with respect to whom the determination is made, or

(2) A taxpayer who acquired title to the property in the erroneously treated transaction and from whom, mediately or immediately, the taxpayer with respect to whom the determination is made derived title in such a manner that he will have a basis ascertained by reference to the basis in the hands of the taxpayer who acquired title to the property in the erroneously treated transaction, or

(3) A taxpayer who had title to the property at the time of the erroneously treated transaction and from whom, mediately or immediately, the taxpayer with respect to whom the determination is made derived title, if the basis of the property in the hands of the taxpayer with respect to whom the determination is made is determined under section 1015(a) (relating to the basis of property acquired by gift).

No adjustment is authorized with respect to the transferor of the property in a transaction upon which the basis of the property depends, when the determination is with respect to the original transferee or a subsequent transferee of such original transferee.

(c) The application of this section may be illustrated by the following examples:

Example 1.In 1949 taxpayer A transferred property which had cost him $5,000 to the X Corporation in exchange for an original issue of shares of its stock having a fair market value of $10,000. In his return for 1949 taxpayer A treated the exchange as one in which the gain or loss was not recognizable:

(i) In 1955 the X Corporation maintains that the gain should have been recognized in the exchange in 1949 and therefore the property it received had a $10,000 basis for depreciation. Its position is adopted in a closing agreement. No adjustment is authorized with respect to the tax of the X Corporation for 1949, as none of the three types of errors specified in paragraph (a) of this section occurred with respect to the X Corporation in the treatment of the exchange in 1949. Moreover, no adjustment is authorized with respect to taxpayer A, as he is not within any of the three classes of taxpayers described in paragraph (b) of this section.

(ii) In 1953 taxpayer A sells the stock which he received in 1949 and maintains that, as gain should have been recognized in the exchange in 1949, the basis for computing the profit on the sale is $10,000. His position is confirmed in a closing agreement executed in 1955. An adjustment is authorized with respect to his tax for the year 1949 as the basis for computing the gain on the sale depends upon the transaction in 1949, and in respect of that transaction there was an erroneous nonrecognition of gain to taxpayer A, the taxpayer with respect to whom the determination is made.

Example 2.In 1950 taxpayer A was the owner of 10 shares of the common stock of the Z Corporation which had a basis of $1,500. In that year he received as a dividend thereon 10 shares of the preferred stock of the same corporation having a fair market value of $1,000. On his books, entries were made reducing the basis of the common stock by allocating $500 of the basis to the preferred stock, and on his return for 1950 he did not include the dividend in gross income.

(i) In 1951 taxpayer A made a gift of the preferred stock of the Z Corporation to taxpayer B, an unrelated individual. Taxpayer B sold the stock in 1953 and on his return for that year he reported the sale and claimed a basis of $1,000, contending that the dividend of preferred stock was taxable to A in 1950 at its fair market value of $1,000. The basis of $1,000 is confirmed by a closing agreement executed in 1955. An adjustment is authorized with respect to taxpayer A's tax for 1950, as the closing agreement determines basis of property, and in a prior transaction upon which such basis depends there was an erroneous omission from gross income of taxpayer A, a taxpayer who acquired title to the property in the erroneously treated transaction and from whom, immediately, the taxpayer with respect to whom the determination is made derived title.

(ii) Assuming the same facts as in (i) except that the common stock instead of the preferred stock was the subject of the gift, and the basis claimed by taxpayer B and confirmed in the closing agreement was $1,500. An adjustment is authorized with respect to taxpayer A's tax for 1950, as the closing agreement determines the basis of property, and in a prior transaction which was erroneously treated as affecting such basis there was an erroneous omission from gross income of taxpayer A, a taxpayer who had title to the property at the time of the erroneously treated transaction, and from whom, immediately, taxpayer B, with respect to whom the determination is made, derived title. The basis of the property in taxpayer B's hands with respect to whom the determination is made is determined under section 1015(a) (relating to the basis of property acquired by gift).

Example 3.In 1950 taxpayer A sold property acquired at a cost of $5,000 to taxpayer B for $10,000. In his return for 1950 taxpayer A failed to include the profit on such sale. In 1953 taxpayer B sold the property for $12,000, and in his return for 1953 reported a gain of $2,000 upon the sale, which is confirmed by a closing agreement executed in 1955. No adjustment is authorized with respect to the tax of taxpayer A for 1950, as he does not come within any of the three classes of taxpayers described in paragraph (b) of this section.Example 4.In 1950 a taxpayer who owned 100 shares of stock in Corporation Y received $1,000 from the corporation which amount the taxpayer reported on his return for 1950 as a taxable dividend. In 1952 Corporation Y was completely liquidated and the taxpayer received in that year liquidating distributions totalling $8,000. In his return for 1952 the taxpayer reported the receipt of the $8,000 and computed his gain or loss upon the liquidation by using as a basis the amount which he paid for the stock. The Commissioner maintained that the distribution in 1950 was a distribution out of capital and that in computing the taxpayer's gain or loss upon the liquidation in 1952, the basis of the stock should be reduced by the $1,000. This position is adopted in a closing agreement executed in 1955 with respect to the year 1952. An adjustment is authorized with respect to the year 1950 as the basis for computing gain or loss in 1952 depends upon the transaction in 1950, and in respect of the 1950 transaction (upon which the basis of the property depends) there was an erroneous inclusion in gross income of the taxpayer with respect to whom the determination is made.Example 5.In 1946 a taxpayer received 100 shares of stock of the X Corporation having a fair market value of $5,000, in exchange for shares of stock in the Y Corporation which he had acquired at a cost of $12,000. In his return for 1946 the taxpayer treated the exchange as one in which gain or loss was not recognizable. The taxpayer sold 50 shares of the X Corporation stock in 1947 and in his return for that year treated such shares as having a $6,000 basis. In 1952, the taxpayer sold the remaining 50 shares of stock of the X Corporation for $7,500 and reported $1,500 gain in his return for 1952. After the expiration of the period of limitations on deficiency assessments and on refund claims for 1946 and 1947, the Commissioner asserted a deficiency for 1952 on the ground that the loss realized on the exchange in 1946 was erroneously treated as nonrecognizable, and the basis for computing gain upon the sale in 1952 was $2,500, resulting in a gain of $5,000. The deficiency is sustained by the Tax Court in 1955. An adjustment is authorized with respect to the year 1946 as to the entire $7,000 loss realized on the exchange, as the Court's decision determines the basis of property, and in a prior transaction upon which such basis depends there was an erroneous nonrecognition of loss to the taxpayer with respect to whom the determination was made. No adjustment is authorized with respect to the year 1947 as the basis for computing gain upon the sale of the 50 shares in 1952 does not depend upon the transaction in 1947 but upon the transaction in 1946.[T.D. 6500, 25 FR 12035, Nov. 26, 1960, as amended by T.D. 6617, 27 FR 10824, Nov. 7, 1962]