##### § 590.910 Eligibility of foreign countries for importation of egg products into the United States. #####

(a) Whenever it is determined by the Administrator that the system of egg products inspection maintained by any foreign country is such that the egg products produced in such country are processed, labeled, and packaged in accordance with, and otherwise comply with, the standards of the Act and these regulations including, but not limited to the same sanitary, processing, facility requirements, and continuous Government inspection as required in §§ 590.500 through 590.580 applicable to inspected articles produced within the United States, notice of that fact will be given by listing the name of such foreign country in paragraph (b) of this section. Thereafter, egg products from the countries so listed shall be eligible, subject to the provisions of this part and other applicable laws and regulations, for importation into the United States. Such products to be imported into the United States from these foreign countries must meet, to the extent applicable, the same standards and requirements that apply to comparable domestic products as set forth in these regulations. Egg products from foreign countries not listed herein are not eligible for importation into the United States, except as provided by § 590.960. In determining if the inspection system of a foreign country is the equivalent of the system maintained by the United States, the Administrator shall review the inspection regulations of the foreign country and make a survey to determine the manner in which the inspection system is administered within the foreign country. The survey of the foreign inspection system may be expedited by payment by the interested Government agency in the foreign country of the travel expenses incurred in making the survey. After approval of the inspection system of a foreign country, the Administrator may, as often and to the extent deemed necessary, authorize representatives of the Department to review the system to determine that it is maintained in such a manner as to be the equivalent of the system maintained by the United States.

(b) It has been determined that each of the following foreign countries maintain an egg products inspection system that is the equivalent of the system maintained by the United States: Canada, The Netherlands.

[36 FR 9814, May 28, 1971. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, as amended at 42 FR 48327, Sept. 23, 1977. Redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981, as amended at 52 FR 42426, Nov. 5, 1987]