##### § 1.871-14T Rules relating to repeal of tax on interest of nonresident alien individuals and foreign corporations received from certain portfolio debt investments (temporary). #####

(a) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.871-14(a).

(b) *Rules concerning obligations in bearer form before March 19, 2012* - (1) *In general.* Interest (including original issue discount) with respect to an obligation in bearer form is portfolio interest within the meaning of section 871(h)(2)(A) or 881(c)(2)(A) only if it is paid with respect to an obligation issued after July 18, 1984, and issued before March 19, 2012, that is described in section 163(f)(2)(B), as in effect prior to the amendment by section 502 of the Hiring Incentives to Restore Employment Act of 2010 (HIRE Act), Public Law 111-147, and the regulations under that section and an exception under section 871(h) or 881(c) does not apply. Any obligation that is not in registered form as defined in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section is an obligation in bearer form.

(2) *Coordination with withholding and reporting rules.* For an exemption from withholding under section 1441 with respect to obligations described in this paragraph (b), see § 1.1441-1(b)(4)(i). See § 1.1471-2 for rules relating to withholding under chapter 4 of the Code that may apply to withholdable payments (as defined in § 1.1471-4(b)(145)) made on or after July 1, 2014, with respect to an agreement or instrument that is not treated as an obligation outstanding before March 19, 2012. For purposes of the preceding sentence, the terms *obligation* and *outstanding* are described in § 1.1471-2(b)). See also § 1.1471-4(d)(6) for the reporting requirements of participating foreign financial institutions (as defined in § 1.1471-1(b)(91)) with respect to accounts held by recalcitrant account holders (as defined in § 1.1471-5(g)). For rules relating to an exemption from Form 1099 reporting and backup withholding under section 3406, see section 6049 and § 1.6049-5(b)(8) for the payment of interest and § 1.6045-1(g)(1)(ii) for the redemption, retirement, or sale of an obligation in bearer form.

(c)(1) through (c)(1)(ii)(D) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1871-14(c)(1) introductory text through (c)(1)(ii)(D).

(2) *Required statement.* For purposes of paragraph (c)(1)(ii)(C) of this section, a U.S. person will be considered to have received a statement that meets the requirements of section 871(h)(5) if either it complies with one of the procedures described in this paragraph (c)(2) and does not have actual knowledge or reason to know that the beneficial owner is a U.S. person or it complies with the procedures described in paragraph (d) or (e) of this section (to the extent applicable).

(i) The U.S. person (or its authorized agent described in § 1.1441-7(c)(2)) can reliably associate the payment with documentation upon which it can rely to treat the payment as made to a foreign beneficial owner in accordance with § 1.1441-1(e)(1)(ii). See § 1.1441-1(b)(2)(vii) for rules regarding reliable association with documentation.

(ii) The U.S. person (or its authorized agent described in § 1.1441-7(c)(2)) can reliably associate the payment with a withholding certificate described in § 1.1441-5(c)(2)(iv) from a person claiming to be a withholding foreign partnership or § 1.1441-5(e)(v) for a person claiming to be a withholding foreign trust.

(iii) The U.S. person (or its authorized agent described in § 1.1441-7(c)(2)) can reliably associate the payment with a withholding certificate described in § 1.1441-1(e)(3)(ii) from a person representing to be a qualified intermediary that has assumed primary withholding responsibility for the payment in accordance with § 1.1441-1(e)(5)(iv) or a qualified intermediary that has provided a withholding statement that meets the requirements of § 1.1441-1(e)(5)(v)(C) or that includes the payment in a withholding rate pool for payments excepted from withholding.

(iv) The U.S. person (or its authorized agent described in § 1.1441-7(c)(2)) can reliably associate the payment with a withholding certificate described in § 1.1441-1(e)(3)(v) from a person claiming to be a U.S. branch of a foreign bank or of a foreign insurance company that is described in § 1.1441-1(b)(2)(iv)(A) or a U.S. branch designated in accordance with § 1.1441-1(b)(2)(iv)(E).

(v) and (vi) [Reserved]. For further guidance, see § 1.871-14(c)(2)(v) and (vi).

(3) *Time for providing certificate or documentary evidence* - (i) *General rule.* Interest on a registered obligation shall qualify as portfolio interest if the withholding certificate or documentary evidence that must be provided is furnished before expiration of the beneficial owner's period of limitation for claiming a refund of tax with respect to such interest. See, however, § 1.1441-1(b)(7) for consequences to a withholding agent that makes a payment without withholding even though it cannot reliably associate the payment with the documentation prior to the payment. If a withholding agent withholds an amount under chapter 3 of the Code because it cannot reliably associate the payment with the documentation for the beneficial owner on the date of payment, the beneficial owner may nevertheless claim the benefit of an exemption from tax under this section by claiming a refund or credit for the amount withheld based upon the procedures described in §§ 1.1464-1 and 301.6402-3(e) of this chapter. See § 1.1474-5 and § 301.6402-3(e) for the allowance and requirements for a refund with respect to an amount (including a payment of interest) that was withheld upon under chapter 4 of the Code. In the alternative, adjustments to any amount of overwithheld tax may be made under the procedures described in § 1.1461-2(a) for a payment withheld upon under chapter 3 of the Code or in § 1.1474-2 for a payment withheld upon under chapter 4 of the Code.

(ii) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.871-14(c)(3)(ii).

(4) *Coordination with withholding and reporting rules.* For an exemption from withholding under section 1441 with respect to obligations described in this paragraph (c)(4), see § 1.1441-1(b)(4)(i). For rules applicable to withholding certificates, see § 1.1441-1(e)(4). For rules regarding documentary evidence, see § 1.6049-5(c)(1). For application of presumptions when the U.S. person cannot reliably associate the payment with documentation, see § 1.1441-1(b)(3). For standards of knowledge applicable to withholding agents, see § 1.1441-7(b). For rules relating to reporting on Forms 1042 and 1042-S, see § 1.1461-1(b) and (c). For rules relating to an exemption from Form 1099 reporting and backup withholding under section 3406, see section 6049 and § 1.6049-5(b)(8) for the payment of interest and § 1.6045-1(g)(1)(i) for the redemption, retirement, or sale of an obligation in registered form. For rules relating to withholding under sections 1471 and 1472 that may apply notwithstanding the exemption for payments of portfolio interest under section 1441, see §§ 1.1471-2(a), 1.1471-4(b), and 1.1472-1(b).

(d) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.871-14(d) introductory text through (d)(3)(iv).

(e) *Foreign-targeted registered obligations* - (1) *General rule.* The statement described in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section is not required with respect to interest paid on an obligation issued before January 1, 2016, that is a registered obligation targeting foreign markets in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (e)(2) of this section if the interest is paid by a U.S. person, a withholding foreign partnership, or a U.S. branch described in § 1.1441-1(b)(2)(iv)(A) or (E) to a registered owner at an address outside the United States, provided that the registered owner is a financial institution described in section 871(h)(5)(B). In that case, the U.S. person otherwise required to deduct and withhold tax may treat the interest as portfolio interest if it does not have actual knowledge that the beneficial owner is a United States person and if it receives the certificate described in paragraph (e)(3)(i) of this section from a financial institution or member of a clearing organization, which member is the beneficial owner of the obligation, or the documentary evidence or statement described in paragraph (e)(3)(ii) of this section from the beneficial owner, in accordance with the procedures described in paragraph (e)(4) of this section.

(2) through (i)(2) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.871-14(e)(2) through (i)(2).

(3) *Effective/applicability date.* The rules of paragraphs (b)(2), (c)(3)(i), and (c)(4) of this section apply to payments of interest made after June 30, 2014. (For payments of interest made before July 1, 2014, see paragraphs (b)(2), (c)(3)(i), and (c)(4) of this section as in effect prior to February 28, 2017.)

(j) *Expiration date.* The applicability of this section expires on or before February 28, 2017.

[T.D. 9658, 79 FR 12746, Mar. 6, 2014, as amended by T.D. 9658, 79 FR 37182, July 1, 2014]