##### ยง 2700.105 Disclosure of information by the Parties. #####

(a) Within 45 calendar days after a case has been designated for Simplified Proceedings, the parties shall provide any information in a party's possession, custody, or control that the disclosing party or opposing party may use to support its claims or defenses. Any material or object that cannot be copied, or the copying of which would be unduly burdensome, shall be described and its location specified. Materials required to be disclosed include, but are not limited to, inspection notes from the entire subject inspection, rebuttal forms, citation documentation, narratives, photos, diagrams, preshift and onshift reports, training documents, mine maps, witness statements (subject to the provisions of ยง 2700.61), witness lists, and written opinions of expert witnesses, if any.

(b) If any items are withheld from disclosure on grounds of privilege, the disclosing party shall provide a log describing each item and stating the reason(s) why it was not produced. The privilege log shall provide an index, identifying the allegedly privileged documents and shall provide sufficient detail to permit an informed decision as to whether the document is at least potentially privileged. Specifically, the index must include: A description of the document, including its subject matter and the purpose for which it was created; the date the document was created; the name and job title of the author of the document; and if applicable, the name and job title of the recipient(s) of the document. The judge may order an *in camera* inspection of the privileged documents, if necessary, to determine the proper application of the privilege.