cfr/title-43-Public-Lands-Interior/subtitle-B-Regulations-Relating-Public-Lands/chapter-II-Bureau-Land-Management-Department-Interior/subchapter-B-Land-Resource-Management-2000/part-2800-RightsofWay-Under-Federal-Land-Policy-Management-Act/subpart-2805-Terms-Conditions-Grants/section-2805.16.md, before:

##### § 2805.16 If I hold a grant, what monitoring fees must I pay? #####

Link to an amendment published at 81 FR 92215, December 19, 2016.

(a) *Monitoring fees.* You must pay a fee to BLM for the reasonable costs the Federal government incurs in monitoring the construction, operation, maintenance, and termination of the project and protection and rehabilitation of the public lands your grant covers. BLM categorizes the monitoring fees based on the estimated number of work hours necessary to monitor your grant. Monitoring Category 1 through 4 fees are one-time fees and are not refundable. The work hours and fees for 2005 are as follows:

2005 Monitoring Fee Schedule

|                                   Monitoring category                                   |       Federal work hours involved       |Monitoring fee as of June 21, 2005. To be adjusted annually for changes in the IPD-GDP. See paragraph (b) of this section for update information|
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|(1) Applications for new grants, assignments, renewals, and amendments to existing grants| Estimated Federal work hours are \>1 ≤8 |                                                                      $97.                                                                      |
|(2) Applications for new grants, assignments, renewals, and amendments to existing grants|Estimated Federal work hours are \>8 ≤24 |                                                                     $343.                                                                      |
|(3) Applications for new grants, assignments, renewals, and amendments to existing grants|Estimated Federal work hours are \>24 ≤36|                                                                     $644.                                                                      |
|(4) Applications for new grants, assignments, renewals, and amendments to existing grants|  Estimated Federal work hours \>36 ≤50  |                                                                     $923.                                                                      |
|                                  (5) Master Agreements                                  |                 Varies                  |                                                         As specified in the Agreement.                                                         |
|(6) Applications for new grants, assignments, renewals, and amendments to existing grants|  Estimated Federal work hours are \>50  |                                                             Full reasonable costs.                                                             |

(b) *Updating the schedule.* BLM will revise paragraph (a) of this section annually to update Category 1 through 4 monitoring fees in the manner described at § 2804.14(c) of this part. BLM will update Category 5 monitoring fees as specified in the Master Agreement. The monitoring cost schedule is available from any BLM state or field office or by writing: Director, Bureau of Land Management, 1849 C St., NW., Mail Stop 1000LS, Washington, DC 20240. BLM also posts the current schedule on the BLM Homepage on the Internet at *http://www.blm.gov.*

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2017-07-26 issue
Title: 14: Aeronautics and Space - Sections changed: 3
Title: 10: Energy - Sections changed: 4
Title: 26: Internal Revenue - Sections changed: 12
Title: 38: Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief - Sections changed: 1
Title: 43: Public Lands: Interior - Sections changed: 14

cfr/title-43-Public-Lands-Interior/subtitle-B-Regulations-Relating-Public-Lands/chapter-II-Bureau-Land-Management-Department-Interior/subchapter-B-Land-Resource-Management-2000/part-2800-RightsofWay-Under-Federal-Land-Policy-Management-Act/subpart-2805-Terms-Conditions-Grants/section-2805.16.md, after:

##### § 2805.16 If I hold a grant, what monitoring fees must I pay? #####

(a) You must pay a fee to the BLM for the reasonable costs the Federal Government incurs in inspecting and monitoring the construction, operation, maintenance, and termination of the project and protection and rehabilitation of the public lands your grant covers. Instead of paying the BLM a fee for the reasonable costs incurred by other Federal agencies in monitoring your grant, you may pay the other Federal agencies directly for such costs. The BLM will annually adjust the Category 1 through 4 monitoring fees in the manner described at § 2804.14(b). The BLM will update Category 5 monitoring fees as specified in the Master Agreement. Category 6 monitoring fees are addressed at § 2805.17(c). The BLM categorizes the monitoring fees based on the estimated number of work hours necessary to monitor your grant. Category 1 through 4 monitoring fees are one-time fees and are not refundable. The monitoring categories and work hours are as follows:

Monitoring Categories

|                                         Monitoring category                                         |    Federal work hours  <br/>involved     |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------|
|(1) Inspecting and monitoring of new grants, assignments, renewals, and amendments to existing grants| Estimated Federal work hours are \>1 ≤8. |
|(2) Inspecting and monitoring of new grants, assignments, renewals, and amendments to existing grants|Estimated Federal work hours are \>8 ≤24. |
|(3) Inspecting and monitoring of new grants, assignments, renewals, and amendments to existing grants|Estimated Federal work hours are \>24 ≤36.|
|(4) Inspecting and monitoring of new grants, assignments, renewals, and amendments to existing grants|Estimated Federal work hours are \>36 ≤50.|
|                                        (5) Master Agreements                                        |                 Varies.                  |
|(6) Inspecting and monitoring of new grants, assignments, renewals, and amendments to existing grants|  Estimated Federal work hours are \>50.  |

(b) The monitoring cost schedule is available from any BLM State, district, or field office or by writing: U.S. Department of the Interior, Bureau of Land Management, 20 M Street SE., Room 2134LM, Washington, DC 20003. The BLM also posts the current schedule at *http://www.blm.gov.*

[81 FR 92215, Dec. 19, 2016]
