##### ยง 300.1 Incorporation by reference of the Manual of Regulations and Procedures for Federal Radio Frequency Management. #####

(a) The Manual of Regulations and Procedures for Federal Radio Frequency Management (the NTIA Manual) is issued by the Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Communications and Information, and is specifically designed to cover the Assistant Secretary's frequency management responsibilities pursuant to delegated authority under 47 U.S.C. 901 *et seq.* and Executive Order 12046 (March 27, 1978). Federal agencies must comply with the requirements in the NTIA Manual specified in paragraph (b) of this section.

(b) The material listed in this paragraph (b) is incorporated by reference into this section with approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. All approved incorporation by reference (IBR) material is available for inspection at National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA) and the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). Contact NTIA at: National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Office of Spectrum Management, 1401 Constitution Avenue NW, Room 1087, Washington, DC 20230, telephone: (202) 482-1670. For information on the availability of this material, visit *www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html* or email *fr.inspection@nara.gov.* The material is available from: Commerce Department, National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Office of Spectrum Management, 1401 Constitution Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20230, *www.ntia.gov/page/2022/manual-regulations-and-procedures-federal-radio-frequency-management-redbook;* and Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Publishing Office, Washington, DC 20402, *https://bookstore.gpo.gov/* (reference Catalog Number 903-008- 00000-8).

(1) Manual of Regulations and Procedures for Federal Radio Frequency Management, January 2022 Revisions to the January 2021 Edition, approved November 8, 2022.

(2) [Reserved]

[83 FR 28161, June 18, 2018, as amended at 87 FR 2730, Jan. 19, 2022; 88 FR 13176, Mar. 6, 2023]