##### ยง 884.7 Requests by state and local authorities when the requested member is located in that state. #####

(a) The Air Force normally will turn over to the civilian authorities of the state, upon their request. Air Force members charged with an offense against state or local law. Each request by such civilian authorities for the surrender of a member of the Air Force should normally be accompanied by a copy of an indictment, information, or other document used in the state to prefer charges, or a warrant that reflects the charges and is issued by a court of competent jurisdiction.

(b) Before making delivery to civilian authorities of a state, the commander having authority to deliver will obtain a written agreement, substantially in the form of ยง 884.18, from a duly authorized officer of the state.

(c) Where the state authority cannot agree to one or more of the conditions set out in the form, the commander may authorize modification. The requirements of the agreement are substantially met when the state authority informs the accused's commander of the accused's prospective release for return to military authorities and when the state furnishes the accused transportation back to his or her station, together with necessary funds to cover incidental expenses en route. The accused's commander provides copies of the statement or agreement of this section and in ยง 884.6(b) to the civilian authority to whom the member was delivered and to the Air Force unit, activity, or recruiting office nearest to the place of trial designated in the agreement as the point of contact in the event of release on bail or on recognizance (see ยง 884.4). The accused's commander immediately notifies the civilian authority if the member has been discharged from the Air Force.