##### § 12.4 Election of Class Life Asset Depreciation Range System (ADR). #####

(a) *Elections filed before February 1, 1972.* No election or tax return shall be filed which does not conform to section 109 of the Revenue Act of 1971 (Pub. L. 92-178, 85 Stat. 508). If a taxpayer has before February 1, 1972 filed an election and a tax return in accordance with § 1.167(a)-11 of this chapter (relating to depreciation allowances using the Asset Depreciation Range System published in the Federal Register for June 23, 1971), such election will be treated as an election under the Class Life Asset Depreciation Range System (ADR) as contained in section 109 of the Revenue Act of 1971 and the proposed amendments to § 1.167(a)-11 of this chapter published in the Federal Register for January 27, 1972, provided that the election conforms with the provisions of the Class Life Asset Depreciation Range System (ADR) contained in section 109 of the Revenue Act of 1971 and the amendments to the regulations as finally adopted. Such an election and the determination of tax liability on the tax return are subject to the terms and conditions of section 109 of the Revenue Act of 1971 and the final regulations prescribing the Class Life Asset Depreciation Range System (ADR). (For revocation of an election, see paragraph (c) of this section.) An election and tax return filed before February 1, 1972, which does not conform with the final regulations prescribing the Class Life Asset Depreciation Range System (ADR) is an invalid election unless corrected by an amended tax return and election filed no later than the time permitted by paragraph (c) of this section. If a valid election under § 1.167(a)-11 of this chapter is not filed for a taxable year, the taxpayer is required to file or amend his tax return and determine tax liability for the taxable year without regard to § 1.167(a)-11 of this chapter.

(b) *Elections filed after January 31, 1972.* No election or tax return shall be filed which does not conform with section 109 of the Revenue Act of 1971. An election and tax return filed under § 1.167(a)-11 of this chapter after January 31, 1972, and before the final amendments to the regulations are published in the Federal Register, should be filed in accordance with section 109 of the Revenue Act of 1971 and the proposed amendments to § 1.167(a)-11 of this chapter relating to the Class Life Asset Depreciation Range System (ADR). Such election and the determination of tax liability on the tax return are subject to the terms and conditions of section 109 of the Revenue Act of 1971 and the final regulations prescribing the Class Life Asset Depreciation Range System (ADR). An election and tax return filed after January 31, 1972, which does not conform with the final regulations prescribing the Class Life Asset Depreciation Range System (ADR), is not a valid election unless corrected by an amended tax return and election filed no later than the time permitted by paragraph (c) of this section. (For revocation of election, see paragraph (c) of this section.) If a valid election under § 1.167(a)-11 of this chapter is not filed for a taxable year the taxpayer is required to file or amend his tax return and determine tax liability for the taxable year without regard to § 1.167(a)-11 of this chapter.

(c) *Special rule for election and revocation.* Notwithstanding the rules of § 1.167(a)-11 of this chapter, a taxpayer is permitted to make, amend or revoke an election under § 1.167(a)-11 of this chapter at any time before the latest of (1) the time the taxpayer files his first return for the taxable year of election, (2) 120 days after the final regulations prescribing the Class Life Asset Depreciation Range System (ADR) are published in the Federal Register, or (3) the time prescribed by law (including extensions thereof) for filing the return for the taxable year of election. The notification of amendment or revocation of an election shall be made by filing an amended tax return with the Internal Revenue Service Center with which the election was filed. The election should be filed in the manner specified in the Class Life Asset Depreciation Range System (ADR) regulations as finally prescribed.

(d) *Examples.* The principles of this section may be illustrated by the following examples:

Example (1).Taxpayer A filed an election under § 1.167(a)-11 before February 1, 1972. A elected to use the modified half-year convention by treating all assets as placed in service on the first day of the second quarter of the taxable year, excluded section 1250 property (as defined in section 1250(c)) and property used predominantly outside the United States from the election, and included “subsidiary assets” (as defined in § 1.167(a)-11(b)(5)(vii) of the proposed amendments to the regulations) in the election. A's election does not conform with the regulations under § 1.167(a)-11 as proposed to be amended. A should file an amended return and election within 120 days after the publication of the final Class Life Asset Depreciation Range System (ADR) regulations under § 1.167(a)-11. Such amended return and election must conform to the final amendments to the regulations. In the amended election, A must adopt one of the conventions permitted by the final amendments. Assuming the proposed amendments are finally adopted, A may exclude his subsidiary assets from the election provided the conditions of paragraph (b)(5)(vii) of § 1.167(a)-11 of the regulations, as proposed to be amended, are met, and A must include property used predominantly outside the United States in the election unless paragraph (b)(5)(iii), (v), or (vi) of § 1.167(a)-11, as proposed to be amended, permit the exclusion of the property. Generally, A must include section 1250 property in the election unless paragraph (b)(5)(vi) of § 1.167(a)-11, as proposed to be amended, permits the exclusion of the property.Example (2).Taxpayer B filed an election to compute depreciation under § 1.167(a)-11 before February 1, 1972. B elected to use the half-year convention and has no assets used predominantly outside the United States. B excluded section 1250 property from the election and included his subsidiary assets in the election. Assume that the provisions of paragraph (b)(5)(vi) of § 1.167(a)-11, as proposed to be amended, apply and permit the exclusion of section 1250 property and that B does not elect to exclude subsidiary assets pursuant to paragraph (b)(5)(vii), as proposed to be amended. B has no assets which were excluded from the election under paragraph (b)(5)(v) of § 1.167(a)-11, as proposed to be amended. The election which was filed before February 1, 1972, will be treated as a valid election under the Class Life Asset Depreciation Range System (ADR) as contained in the final amendments to the regulations, if it conforms with those amendments. B need not file an amended election provided his election conforms to the final regulations under § 1.167(a)-11. However, B may file an amended election within 120 days after the final regulations under § 1.167(a)-11 are published in the Federal Register in order to include section 1250 property, or to exclude subsidiary assets, or to make other changes, or to revoke the election.[T.D. 7159, 37 FR 1469, Jan. 29, 1972]