##### ยง 409.46 Allowable administrative costs. #####

Services that are allowable as administrative costs but are not separately billable include, but are not limited to, the following:

(a) *Registered nurse initial evaluation visits.* Initial evaluation visits by a registered nurse for the purpose of assessing a beneficiary's health needs, determining if the agency can meet those health needs, and formulating a plan of care for the beneficiary are allowable administrative costs. If a physician specifically orders that a particular skilled service be furnished during the evaluation in which the agency accepts the beneficiary for treatment and all other coverage criteria are met, the visit is billable as a skilled nursing visit. Otherwise it is considered to be an administrative cost.

(b) *Visits by registered nurses or qualified professionals for the supervision of home health aides.* Visits by registered nurses or qualified professionals for the purpose of supervising home health aides as required at ยง 484.36(d) of this chapter are allowable administrative costs. Only if the registered nurse or qualified professional visits the beneficiary for the purpose of furnishing care that meets the coverage criteria at ยง 409.44, and the supervisory visit occurs simultaneously with the provision of covered care, is the visit billable as a skilled nursing or therapist's visit.

(c) *Respiratory care services.* If a respiratory therapist is used to furnish overall training or consultative advice to an HHA's staff and incidentally provides respiratory therapy services to beneficiaries in their homes, the costs of the respiratory therapist's services are allowable as administrative costs. Visits by a respiratory therapist to a beneficiary's home are not separately billable. However, respiratory therapy services that are furnished as part of a plan of care by a skilled nurse or physical therapist and that constitute skilled care may be separately billed as skilled visits.

(d) *Dietary and nutrition personnel.* If dieticians or nutritionists are used to provide overall training or consultative advice to HHA staff and incidentally provide dietetic or nutritional services to beneficiaries in their homes, the costs of these professional services are allowable as administrative costs. Visits by a dietician or nutritionist to a beneficiary's home are not separately billable.

[59 FR 65496, Dec. 20, 1994]