##### § 75.12 Communication of information to IAEA. #####

Link to an amendment published at 83 FR 19611, May 4, 2018.

(a) Except as otherwise provided in this section, the Commission will furnish to the IAEA all information submitted under §§ 75.10, 75.11, and 75.31 through 75.43.

(b)(1) An applicant, licensee, or certificate holder may request that information of particular sensitivity, that it customarily holds in confidence, not be transmitted physically to the IAEA. An applicant, licensee, or certificate holder who makes this request shall, at the time the information is submitted, identify the pertinent document or part thereof and make a full statement of the reasons supporting the request. The applicant, licensee, or certificate holder shall retain a copy of the request and all documents related to the request as a record until the Commission terminates the license or certificate for each facility or location involved with the request, or until the Commission notifies the applicant, licensee, or certificate holder that the applicant, licensee, or certificate holder is no longer under the Safeguards Agreement. Superseded material must be retained for 3 years after each change is made.

(2) In considering such a request, it is the policy of the Commission to achieve an effective balance between legitimate concerns of licensees, applicants, or certificate holders, including protection of the competitive position of the owner of the information, and the undertaking of the United States to cooperate with the IAEA to facilitate the implementation of the safeguards provided for in the Safeguards Agreement and Additional Protocol. The Commission will take into account the obligation of the IAEA to take every precaution to protect commercial and industrial secrets and other confidential information coming to its knowledge in the implementation of the Safeguards Agreement and Additional Protocol.

(3) A request made under § 2.390 of this chapter will not be treated as a request under this section unless the application makes specific reference to this section, nor shall a determination to withhold information from public disclosure necessarily require a determination that such information not be transmitted physically to the IAEA.

(4) If a request is granted, the Commission will determine a location where the information will remain readily available for examination by the IAEA and will so inform the applicant, licensee, or certificate holder. The applicant, licensee, or certificate holder shall retain this information as a record until the Commission terminates the license or certificate for the facility involved with the request or until the Commission notifies the applicant, licensee, or certificate holder that the applicant, licensee, or certificate holder is no longer under the Safeguards Agreement. Superseded material must be retained for 3 years after each change is made.

(c) A request made under § 2.390(b) of this chapter will not be treated as a request under this section unless the application makes specific reference to this section, nor shall a determination to withhold information from public disclosure necessarily require a determination that this information not be transmitted physically to the IAEA.

(d) Where consistent with the Safeguards Agreement, the Commission may at its own initiative, or at the request of a licensee, determine that any information submitted under §§ 75.10, and 75.11 shall not be physically transmitted to, or made available for examination by, the IAEA.

[45 FR 50711, July 31, 1980, as amended at 53 FR 19262, May 27, 1988; 69 FR 2281, Jan. 14, 2004; 73 FR 78612, Dec. 23, 2008]