##### § 301.6033-4 Required use of magnetic media for returns by organizations required to file returns under section 6033. #####

(a) *Returns by organizations required to file returns under section 6033 on magnetic media.* An organization required to file a return under section 6033 on Form 990, “Return of Organization Exempt from Income Tax,” or Form 990-PF, “Return of Private Foundation or Section 4947(a)(1) Trust Treated as a Private Foundation,” must file its Form 990 or 990-PF on magnetic media if the organization is required by the Internal Revenue Code or regulations to file at least 250 returns during the calendar year ending with or within its taxable year. Returns filed on magnetic media must be made in accordance with applicable revenue procedures, publications, forms, or instructions. In prescribing revenue procedures, publications, forms, or instructions, the Commissioner may direct the type of magnetic media filing. (See § 601.601(d)(2) of this chapter).

(b) *Waiver.* The Commissioner may grant waivers of the requirements of this section in cases of undue hardship. A request for waiver must be made in accordance with applicable revenue procedures or publications. The waiver also will be subject to the terms and conditions regarding the method of filing as may be prescribed by the Commissioner.

(c) *Failure to file.* If an organization required to file a return under section 6033 fails to file an information return on magnetic media when required to do so by this section, the organization is deemed to have failed to file the return. (See section 6652 for the addition to tax for failure to file a return.) In determining whether there is reasonable cause for failure to file the return, § 301.6652-2(f) and rules similar to the rules in § 301.6724-1(c)(3) (undue economic hardship related to filing information returns on magnetic media) will apply.

(d) *Meaning of terms.* The following definitions apply for purposes of this section:

(1) *Magnetic media.* The term *magnetic media* means any magnetic media permitted under applicable regulations, revenue procedures, or publications. These generally include magnetic tape, tape cartridge, and diskette, as well as other media, such as electronic filing, specifically permitted under the applicable regulations, procedures, publications, forms or instructions. (See § 601.601(d)(2) of this chapter).

(2) *Return required under section 6033.* The term *return required under section 6033* means a Form 990, “Return of Organization Exempt from Income Tax,” and Form 990-PF, “Return of Private Foundation or Section 4947(a)(1) Trust Treated as a Private Foundation,” along with all other related forms, schedules, and statements that are required to be attached to the Form 990 or Form 990-PF, and all members of the Form 990 series of returns, including amended and superseding returns.

(3) *Determination of 250 returns.* For purposes of this section, an organization is required to file at least 250 returns if, during the calendar year ending with or within the taxable year of the organization, the organization is required to file at least 250 returns of any type, including information returns (for example, Forms W-2, Forms 1099), income tax returns, employment tax returns, and excise tax returns. In the case of a short year return, an organization is required to file at least 250 returns if, during the calendar year which includes the short taxable year of the organization, the organization is required to file at least 250 returns of any type, including information returns (for example, Forms W-2, Forms 1099), income tax returns, employment tax returns, and excise tax returns.

(e) *Example.* The following example illustrates the provisions of paragraph (d)(3) of this section. In the example, the organization is a calendar year taxpayer:

Example.In 2006, Organization T, with total assets in excess of $10 million, is required to file one Form 990, “Return of Organization Exempt from Income Tax,” 200 Forms W-2, “Wage and Tax Statement,” one Form 940, “Employer's Annual Federal Unemployment (FUTA) Tax Return,” four Forms 941, “Employer's Quarterly Federal Tax Return,” and 60 Forms 1099-MISC, “Miscellaneous Income.” Because T is required to file 266 returns during the calendar year, T must file its 2006 Form 990 electronically.

(f) *Effective/applicability dates.* This section applies to any organization required to file Form 990 for a taxable year ending on or after December 31, 2006, that has total assets as of the end of the taxable year of $10 million or more. This section applies to any organization required to file Form 990-PF for taxable years ending on or after December 31, 2006, except for the application of the short year rules in paragraph (d)(3) of this section, which is applicable for taxable years ending on or after November 13, 2007.

[T.D. 9363, 72 FR 63811, Nov. 13, 2007]