cfr/title-46-Shipping/chapter-I-Coast-Guard-Department-Homeland-Security/subchapter-D-Tank-Vessels/part-35-Operations/subpart-35.01-General-Provisions-Special-Operating-Requirements/section-35.01-3.md, before:

##### § 35.01-3 Incorporation by reference. #####

Link to an amendment published at 89 FR 93136, Nov. 25, 2024.

(a) Certain materials are incorporated by reference into this part with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a). To enforce any edition other than the one listed in paragraph (b) of this section, notice of the change must be published in the Federal Register and the material made available to the public. All approved material is on file at the Coast Guard Headquarters. Contact Commandant (CG-OES), Attn: Office of Operating and Environmental Standards, U.S. Coast Guard Stop 7509, 2703 Martin Luther King Jr. Avenue SE., Washington, DC 20593-7509, and is available from the address indicated in paragraph (b), or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal\_register/code\_of\_federal\_regulations/ibr\_locations.html.*

(b) The material approved for incorporation by reference in this part, and the sections affected is:

American Society for Testing and Materials100 Barr Harbor Drive, West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959ASTM F 1014-92 Standard Specification for Flashlights on Vessels. Section affected—35.30-20(c)(3)ASTM Adjunct F 1626, Symbols for Use in Accordance with Regulation II-2/20 of the 1974 SOLAS Convention, PCN 12-616260-01, © 1996-35.10-3ASTM D 93-97, Standard Test Methods for Flash-Point by Pensky-Martens Closed Cup Tester-35.25-10International Maritime Organization (IMO)Publications Section, 4 Albert Embankment, London, SE1 7SR United Kingdom. Resolution A.654(16), Graphical Symbols for Fire Control Plans—35.10-3Note:

All other documents referenced in this part are still in effect.

[CGD 82-042, 53 FR 17704, May 18, 1988, as amended by CGD 96-041, 61 FR 50727, Sept. 27, 1996; CGD 97-057, 62 FR 51043, Sept. 30, 1997; CDG 95-028, 62 FR 51199, Sept. 30, 1997; USCG-1999-5151, 64 FR 67177, Dec. 1, 1999; USCG-2009-0702, 74 FR 49227, Sept. 25, 2009; USCG-2013-0671, 78 FR 60147, Sept. 30, 2013]

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2025-01-17 issue
Title: 5: Administrative Personnel - Sections changed: 17
Title: 14: Aeronautics and Space - Sections changed: 35
Title: 7: Agriculture - Sections changed: 49
Title: 8: Aliens and Nationality - Sections changed: 9
Title: 12: Banks and Banking - Sections changed: 21
Title: 13: Business Credit and Assistance - Sections changed: 3
Title: 15: Commerce and Foreign Trade - Sections changed: 2
Title: 16: Commercial Practices - Sections changed: 1
Title: 17: Commodity and Securities Exchanges - Sections changed: 2
Title: 19: Customs Duties - Sections changed: 61
Title: 34: Education - Sections changed: 8
Title: 20: Employees' Benefits - Sections changed: 33
Title: 10: Energy - Sections changed: 8
Title: 48: Federal Acquisition Regulations System - Sections changed: 110
Title: 21: Food and Drugs - Sections changed: 5
Title: 22: Foreign Relations - Sections changed: 2
Title: 25: Indians - Sections changed: 1
Title: 26: Internal Revenue - Sections changed: 3
Title: 28: Judicial Administration - Sections changed: 4
Title: 29: Labor - Sections changed: 57
Title: 30: Mineral Resources - Sections changed: 2
Title: 31: Money and Finance: Treasury - Sections changed: 1
Title: 32: National Defense - Sections changed: 1
Title: 33: Navigation and Navigable Waters - Sections changed: 2
Title: 39: Postal Service - Sections changed: 2
Title: 40: Protection of Environment - Sections changed: 139
Title: 42: Public Health - Sections changed: 1
Title: 43: Public Lands: Interior - Sections changed: 2
Title: 45: Public Welfare - Sections changed: 1
Title: 46: Shipping - Sections changed: 301
Title: 47: Telecommunication - Sections changed: 3
Title: 49: Transportation - Sections changed: 8

cfr/title-46-Shipping/chapter-I-Coast-Guard-Department-Homeland-Security/subchapter-D-Tank-Vessels/part-35-Operations/subpart-35.01-General-Provisions-Special-Operating-Requirements/section-35.01-3.md, after:

##### § 35.01-3 Incorporation by reference. #####

(a) Certain material is incorporated by reference into this part with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. All approved incorporation by reference material (IBR) is available for inspection at the Coast Guard and the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). Contact Coast Guard at: Office of Merchant Mariner Credentialing (CG-MMC), U.S. Coast Guard, Stop 7509, 2703 Martin Luther King Jr. Avenue SE, Washington, DC 20593-7509; phone: 202-372-1492; website: *https://www.dco.uscg.mil/nmc/merchant\_mariner\_credential/.* For information on the availability of this material at NARA, visit *www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations* or email *fr.inspection@nara.gov.* The material may be obtained from:

(b) ASTM, International (ASTM), 100 Barr Harbor Drive, West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959; phone 610-832-9500; website: *https://www.astm.org/contact.*

(1) ASTM F1014-92, Standard Specification for Flashlights on Vessels, 1992;§ 35.30-20(c).

(2) ASTM Adjunct F1626, Symbols for Use in Accordance with Regulation II-2/20 of the 1974 SOLAS Convention, PCN 12-616260-01, 1996; § 35.10-3.

(3) ASTM D 93-97, Standard Test Methods for Flash-Point by Pensky-Martens Closed Cup Tester, 1997; § 35.25-10.

(c) International Maritime Organization (IMO), Publications Section, 4 Albert Embankment, London, SE1 7SR United Kingdom; phone: +44 (0)20 7735 7611; website: *www.imo.org.*

(1) Resolution A.654(16), Graphical Symbols for Fire Control Plans, 19 October, 1989; § 35.10-3.

(2) [Reserved]

[USCG-2021-0097, 89 FR 93136, Nov. 25, 2024]
