##### ยง 41.105 Supporting documents and fingerprinting. #####

(a) *Supporting documents* - (1) *Authority to require documents.* The consular officer is authorized to require documents considered necessary to establish the alien's eligibility to receive a nonimmigrant visa. All documents and other evidence presented by the alien, including briefs submitted by attorneys or other representatives, shall be considered by the consular officer.

(2) *Unobtainable documents.* If the consular officer is satisfied that a document or record required under the authority of this section is unobtainable, the consular officer may accept satisfactory alternative pertinent evidence. A document or other record shall be considered unobtainable if it cannot be procured without causing the applicant or a member of the applicant's family actual hardship as distinct from normal delay and inconvenience.

(3) *Photographs required.* Every applicant for a nonimmigrant visa must furnish a photograph in such numbers as the consular officer may require. Photographs must be a reasonable likeness, 11/2 by 11/2 inches in size, unmounted, and showing a full, front-face view of the applicant against a light background. At the discretion of the consular officer, head coverings may be permitted provided they do not interfere with the full, front-face view of the applicant. The applicant must sign (full name) on the reverse side of the photographs. The consular officer may use a previously submitted photograph, if he is satisfied that it bears a reasonable likeness to the applicant.

(4) *Police certificates.* A police certificate is a certification by the police or other appropriate authorities stating what, if anything, their records show concerning the alien. An applicant for a nonimmigrant visa is required to present a police certificate if the consular officer has reason to believe that a police or criminal record exists, except that no police certificate is required in the case of an alien who is within a class of nonimmigrants classifiable under visa symbols A-1, A-2, C-3, G-1 through G-4, NATO-1 through NATO-4 or NATO-6.

(b) *Fingerprinting.* Every applicant for a nonimmigrant visa must furnish fingerprints, as required by the consular officer.

[52 FR 42597, Nov. 5, 1987; 53 FR 9112, 9172, Mar. 21, 1988, as amended at 61 FR 1522, Jan. 22, 1996; 61 FR 53058, Oct. 10, 1996; 64 FR 13510, Mar. 19, 1999; 67 FR 8478, Feb. 25, 2002; 72 FR 74175, Dec. 31, 2007; 73 FR 49092, Aug. 20, 2008]