##### § 744.1 General provisions. #####

(a)(1) *Introduction.* In this part, references to the EAR are references to 15 CFR chapter VII, subchapter C. This part contains prohibitions against exports, reexports, and selected transfers to certain end-users and end-uses as introduced under General Prohibition Five (End-use/End-users) and Nine (Orders, Terms, and Conditions), unless authorized by BIS. Sections 744.2, 744.3, 744.4 prohibit exports, reexports and transfers (in-country) of items subject to the EAR to defined nuclear, missile, and chemical and biological proliferation activities. Section 744.5 prohibits exports, reexports and transfers (in-country) of items subject to the EAR to defined nuclear maritime end-uses. Section 744.6 prohibits certain activities by U.S. persons in support of certain nuclear, missile, chemical, or biological end-uses. Section 744.7 prohibits exports and reexports of certain items for certain aircraft and vessels. Section 744.8 prohibits exports and reexports without authorization to certain parties who have been designated as proliferators of weapons of mass destruction or as supporters of such proliferators pursuant to Executive Order 13382. Section 744.10 prohibits exports and reexports of any item subject to the EAR to Russian entities, included in supplement no. 4 of this part. Section 744.11 imposes license requirements, to the extent specified in supplement no. 4 to this part on entities listed in supplement no. 4 to this part for activities contrary to the national security or foreign policy interests of the United States. Sections 744.12, 744.13 and 744.14 prohibit exports and reexports of any item subject to the EAR to persons designated as Specially Designated Global Terrorists, Specially Designated Terrorists, or Foreign Terrorist Organizations, respectively. Section 744.15 sets forth the conditions for exports, reexports, and transfers (in-country) to persons listed on the Unverified List (UVL) in supplement no. 6 of this part, the criteria for revising the UVL, as well as procedures for requesting removal or modification of a listing on the UVL. Section 744.16 sets forth the license requirements, policies and procedures for the Entity List. Section 744.19 sets forth BIS's licensing policy for applications for exports or reexports when a party to the transaction is an entity that has been sanctioned pursuant to any of three specified statutes that require certain license applications to be denied. Section 744.20 requires a license, to the extent specified in supplement no. 4 to this part, for exports and reexports of items subject to the EAR destined to certain sanctioned entities listed in supplement no. 4 to this part. In addition, these sections include license review standards for export license applications submitted as required by these sections. It should also be noted that part 764 of the EAR prohibits exports, reexports and certain transfers of items subject to the EAR to denied parties. Section 744.21 imposes restrictions for exports, reexports and transfers (in-country) of items on the CCL for a 'military end use' or 'military end user' in the People's Republic of China (PRC or China), Russia, or Venezuela. Section 744.22 imposes restrictions on exports, reexports and transfers to persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to Executive Orders 13310, 13448, or 13464.

(2) If controls set forth under more than one section of part 744 apply to a person, the license requirements for such a person will be determined based on the requirements of all applicable sections of part 744, and license applications will be reviewed under all applicable licensing policies.

(b) *Steps.* The following are steps you should follow in using the provisions of this part:

(1) *Review end-use and end-user prohibitions.* First, review each end-use and end-user prohibition described in this part to learn the scope of these prohibitions.

(2) *Determine applicability.* Second, determine whether any of the end-use and end-user prohibitions described in this part are applicable to your planned export, reexport, transfer (in-country) or other activity. See supplement no. 1 to part 732 for guidance. For exports, reexports or transfers (in-country) that are in transit at the time you are informed by BIS that a license is required in accordance with § 744.2(b), § 744.3(b), § 744.4(b) or § 744.6(b) of the EAR, you may not proceed any further with the transaction unless you first obtain a license from BIS (see part 748 of the EAR for instructions on how to apply for a license). The provisions of § 748.4(d)(2) shall not apply to license applications submitted pursuant to a notification from BIS that occurs while an export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) is in transit.

[61 FR 12802, Mar. 25, 1996]Editorial Note:For Federal Register citations affecting § 744.1, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at *www.govinfo.gov.*