cfr/title-15-Commerce-Foreign-Trade/subtitle-B-Regulations-Relating-Commerce-Foreign-Trade/chapter-VII-Bureau-Industry-Security-Department-Commerce/subchapter-C-Export-Administration-Regulations/part-744-Control-Policy-EndUser-EndUse-Based/section-744.16.md, before:

##### § 744.16 Entity List. #####

The Entity List (supplement no. 4 to part 744) identifies persons reasonably believed to be involved, or to pose a significant risk of being or becoming involved, in activities contrary to the national security or foreign policy interests of the United States. The entities are added to the Entity List pursuant to sections of part 744 (Control Policy: End-User and End-Use Based) and part 746 (Embargoes and Other Special Controls) of the EAR.

(a) *License requirements.* In addition to the license requirements for items specified on the Commerce Control List (CCL), you may not, without a license from BIS, export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) any items included in the License Requirement column of an entity's entry on the Entity List (supplement No. 4 to this part) when that entity is a party to a transaction as described in § 748.5(c) through (f) of the EAR. The specific license requirement for each listed entity is identified in the license requirement column on the Entity List in Supplement No. 4 to this part.

(b) *License exceptions.* No license exceptions are available for exports, reexports or transfers (in-country) to listed entities of specified items, except license exceptions for items listed in § 740.2(a)(5) of the EAR destined to listed Indian or Pakistani entities to ensure the safety of civil aviation and safe operation of commercial passenger aircraft, and in the case of entities added to the Entity List pursuant to § 744.20, to the extent specified on the Entity List.

(c) *License review policy* - (1) *General review policy.* The license review policy for each listed entity is identified in the License Review Policy column on the Entity List.

(2) [Reserved]

(d) *The End-User Review Committee (ERC).* The End-User Review Committee (ERC), composed of representatives of the Departments of Commerce (Chair), State, Defense, Energy and, where appropriate, the Treasury, generally makes decisions regarding additions to, removals from, or other modifications to the Entity List.

(e) *Removal or modification requests.* Any entity listed on the Entity List may request that its listing be removed or modified. All such requests, including reasons therefor, must be in writing and sent to: Chair, End-User Review Committee, Bureau of Industry and Security, U.S. Department of Commerce, 14th Street and Pennsylvania Avenue NW., Room 3886, Washington, DC 20230.

(1) *Review.* The ERC will review such requests in accordance with the procedures set forth in Supplement No. 5 to this part.

(2) *BIS action.* The Deputy Assistant Secretary for Export Administration will convey the decision on the request to the requester in writing. That decision will be the final agency action on the request.

[81 FR 64695, Sept. 20, 2016, as amended at 85 FR 51337, Aug. 20, 2020]

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2022-09-09 issue
Title: 8: Aliens and Nationality - Sections changed: 8
Title: 15: Commerce and Foreign Trade - Sections changed: 4
Title: 32: National Defense - Sections changed: 5
Title: 38: Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief - Sections changed: 2
Title: 40: Protection of Environment - Sections changed: 3

cfr/title-15-Commerce-Foreign-Trade/subtitle-B-Regulations-Relating-Commerce-Foreign-Trade/chapter-VII-Bureau-Industry-Security-Department-Commerce/subchapter-C-Export-Administration-Regulations/part-744-Control-Policy-EndUser-EndUse-Based/section-744.16.md, after:

##### § 744.16 Entity List. #####

The Entity List (supplement no. 4 to part 744) identifies persons reasonably believed to be involved, or to pose a significant risk of being or becoming involved, in activities contrary to the national security or foreign policy interests of the United States. The entities are added to the Entity List pursuant to sections of part 744 (Control Policy: End-User and End-Use Based) and part 746 (Embargoes and Other Special Controls) of the EAR.

(a) *License requirements.* In addition to the license requirements for items specified on the CCL, you may not, without a license from BIS, export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) any items included in the License Requirement column of an entity's entry on the Entity List (supplement no. 4 to this part) when that entity is a party to a transaction as described in § 748.5(c) through (f) of the EAR. The specific license requirement for each listed entity is identified in the license requirement column on the Entity List in supplement no. 4 to this part. A license is not required for the release of certain “technology” or “software” when such a release is for a “standards-related activity,” as described in §§ 744.11(a)(1) and 772.1 of the EAR.

(b) *License exceptions.* No license exceptions are available for exports, reexports or transfers (in-country) to listed entities of specified items, except license exceptions for items listed in § 740.2(a)(5) of the EAR destined to listed Indian or Pakistani entities to ensure the safety of civil aviation and safe operation of commercial passenger aircraft, and in the case of entities added to the Entity List pursuant to § 744.20, to the extent specified on the Entity List.

(c) *License review policy*—(1) *General review policy.* The license review policy for each listed entity is identified in the License Review Policy column on the Entity List.

(2) [Reserved]

(d) *The End-User Review Committee (ERC).* The End-User Review Committee (ERC), composed of representatives of the Departments of Commerce (Chair), State, Defense, Energy and, where appropriate, the Treasury, generally makes decisions regarding additions to, removals from, or other modifications to the Entity List.

(e) *Removal or modification requests.* Any entity listed on the Entity List may request that its listing be removed or modified. All such requests, including reasons therefor, must be in writing and sent to: Chair, End-User Review Committee, Bureau of Industry and Security, U.S. Department of Commerce, 14th Street and Pennsylvania Avenue NW., Room 3886, Washington, DC 20230.

(1) *Review.* The ERC will review such requests in accordance with the procedures set forth in Supplement No. 5 to this part.

(2) *BIS action.* The Deputy Assistant Secretary for Export Administration will convey the decision on the request to the requester in writing. That decision will be the final agency action on the request.

[81 FR 64695, Sept. 20, 2016, as amended at 87 FR 55250, Sept. 9, 2022]
