cfr/title-47-Telecommunication/chapter-I-Federal-Communications-Commission/subchapter-D-Safety-Special-Radio-Services/part-95-Personal-Radio-Services/subpart-L-DSRCS-OnBoard-Units/section-95.3189.md, before:

##### § 95.3189 OBU technical standard. #####

Link to an amendment published at 86 FR 23299, May 3, 2021.

On-Board Unit transmitter types operating in the 5850-5925 MHz band must be designed to comply with the technical standard ASTM E2213-03, Standard Specification for Telecommunications and Information Exchange Between Roadside and Vehicle Systems - 5 GHz Band Dedicated Short-range Communications (DSRC) Medium Access Control (MAC) and Physical Layer (PHY) Specifications published 2003 (ASTM E2213-03). ASTM E2213-03 is incorporated by reference into this section with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. To enforce any edition other than that specified in this section, the Federal Communications Commission must publish a document in the Federal Register and the material must be available to the public. The material is available for inspection at the Federal Communications Commission's Reference Information Center, located at the address of the FCC's main office indicated in 47 CFR 0.401(a), Tel: (202) 418-0270, and may be obtained from ASTM International, 100 Barr Harbor Drive, P.O. Box C700, West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959. *http://www.astm.org.* It is also available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030 or go to *http://www.archives.gov/federal\_register/code\_of\_federal\_regulations/ibr\_locations.html*.

[82 FR 41104, Aug. 29, 2017, as amended at 85 FR 64411, Oct. 13, 2020]

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2021-07-02 issue
Title: 18: Conservation of Power and Water Resources - Sections changed: 3
Title: 20: Employees' Benefits - Sections changed: 1
Title: 32: National Defense - Sections changed: 1
Title: 33: Navigation and Navigable Waters - Sections changed: 1
Title: 37: Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights - Sections changed: 5
Title: 40: Protection of Environment - Sections changed: 3
Title: 42: Public Health - Sections changed: 19
Title: 47: Telecommunication - Sections changed: 25
Title: 50: Wildlife and Fisheries - Sections changed: 1

cfr/title-47-Telecommunication/chapter-I-Federal-Communications-Commission/subchapter-D-Safety-Special-Radio-Services/part-95-Personal-Radio-Services/subpart-L-DSRCS-OnBoard-Units/section-95.3189.md, after:

##### § 95.3189 OBU technical standard. #####

(a) DSRCS On-Board Unit (OBU) transmitter types operating in the 5895-5925 MHz band must be designed to comply with the technical standard Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) 802.11p-2010.

(b) 802.11p-2010, IEEE Standard for Information technology—Local and metropolitan area networks—Specific requirements—Part 11: Wireless LAN Medium Access Control (MAC) and Physical Layer (PHY) Specifications Amendment 6: Wireless Access in Vehicular Environments, 15 July 2010 is incorporated by reference into this section with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. All approved material is available for inspection at the address of the FCC's main office indicated in 47 CFR 0.401(a) and is available from Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE), 3025 Boardwalk Drive, Suite 220, Ann Arbor, MI 48108, 1-855-999-9870, *www.techstreet.com/ieee.* It is also available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, email *fedreg.legal@nara.gov* or go to *www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibrlocations.html.*

[86 FR 23299, May 3, 2021]
