##### ยง 946.60 Inspection and certification. #####

(a) During any period in which the Secretary regulates the shipment of potatoes pursuant to the provisions of this subpart, each handler who first ships potatoes shall, prior to making shipment, cause each shipment to be inspected by an authorized representative of the Federal-State inspection service or such other inspection service as the Secretary shall designate. The committee may, with the approval of the Secretary, prescribe rules and regulations modifying the inspection requirements of this section in circumstances under which such requirements would create an undue hardship on growers or shippers: *Provided,* That all such shipments shall comply with all regulations in effect: *And provided further,* That proper safeguards to assure compliance are adopted.

(b) Each such handler shall make arrangements with the inspecting agency to forward promptly to the committee a copy of such inspection certificate: *Provided, however,* That (1) each handler making shipments of potatoes during such period shall prior to making such shipment, determine if such shipment has been inspected and if such shipment has not been so inspected and is not covered by an inspection certificate, each handler making such determinations shall have such potatoes inspected and shall arrange for a copy of the inspection certificate to be forwarded to the committee as aforesaid, and (2) each handler who first ships potatoes after such potatoes are regraded, resorted, or repacked, or in any other way further prepared for market shall have each shipment of such potatoes inspected as provided in this section.

[17 FR 2912, Apr. 14, 1952. Redesignated at 26 FR 12751. Dec. 30, 1961, and further redesignated and amended at 37 FR 10918, June 1, 1972]