##### ยง 354.60 Approval of official identification. #####

Link to an amendment published at 88 FR 2811, Jan. 18, 2023.

(a) Any label or packaging material which bears any official identification shall be used only in such manner as the Administrator may prescribe. No label or packaging material bearing official identification may be used unless finished copies or samples of such labels and packaging material have been approved by the Administrator. No label bearing official identification shall be printed for use until the printer's final proof has been approved by the Administrator, and no label, other than labels for shipping containers or containers for institutional packs, bearing any official identification shall be used until finished copies or samples of such labels have been approved by the Administrator. Final approval may be given to printer's final proof or photostatic copies of labels for shipping containers or containers for institutional packs, and no such labels shall be used until such proofs or copies have been approved by the Administrator. A label which bears official identification shall not bear any statement that is false or misleading, and if labels in the name of the same packer or distributor, or bearing the same brand name, are used on the same or similar products which are prepared from products which are not inspected, the diameter of the inspection mark used on labels for inspected products shall be equal to at least one-tenth of the length of the label, plus at least one-tenth of the width of the label. If the labeling is printed or otherwise applied directly to the container, the principal display panel of such container shall, for this purpose, be considered as the label.