cfr/title-45-Public-Welfare/subtitle-B-Regulations-Relating-Public-Welfare/chapter-III-Office-Child-Support-Enforcement-Child-Support-Enforcement-Program-Administration-Children-Families-Department-Health-Human-Services/part-303-Standards-Program-Operations/section-303.31.md, before:

##### § 303.31 Securing and enforcing medical support obligations. #####

Link to an amendment published at 81 FR 93566, Dec. 20, 2016.

(a) For purposes of this section:

(1) Cash medical support means an amount ordered to be paid toward the cost of health insurance provided by a public entity or by another parent through employment or otherwise, or for other medical costs not covered by insurance.

(2) Health insurance includes fee for service, health maintenance organization, preferred provider organization, and other types of coverage which is available to either parent, under which medical services could be provided to the dependent child(ren).

(3) Cash medical support or the cost of private health insurance is considered reasonable in cost if the cost to the parent responsible for providing medical support does not exceed five percent of his or her gross income or, at State option, a reasonable alternative income-based numeric standard defined in State law, regulations or court rule having the force of law or State child support guidelines adopted in accordance with § 302.56(c) of this chapter. In applying the five percent or alternative State standard for the cost of private health insurance, the cost is the cost of adding the child(ren) to the existing coverage or the difference between self-only and family coverage.

(b) The State IV-D agency must:

(1) Petition the court or administrative authority to include private health insurance that is accessible to the child(ren), as defined by the State, and is available to the parent responsible for providing medical support at reasonable cost, as defined under paragraph (a)(3) of this section, in new or modified court or administrative orders for support;

(2) If private health insurance described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section is not available at the time the order is entered or modified, petition to include cash medical support in new or modified orders until such time as health insurance, that is accessible and reasonable in cost as defined under paragraph (a)(3) of this section, becomes available. In appropriate cases, as defined by the State, cash medical support may be sought in addition to health insurance coverage.

(3) Establish written criteria to identify orders that do not address the health care needs of children based on -

(i) Evidence that private health insurance may be available to either parent at reasonable cost, as defined under paragraph (a)(3) of this section; and

(ii) Facts, as defined by State law, regulation, procedure, or other directive, and review and adjustment requirements under § 303.8(d) of this part, which are sufficient to warrant modification of the existing support order to address the health care needs of children in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section.

(4) Petition the court or administrative authority to modify support orders, in accordance with State child support guidelines, for cases identified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section to include private health insurance and/or cash medical support in accordance with paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section.

(5) Periodically communicate with the Medicaid agency to determine whether there have been lapses in health insurance coverage for Medicaid applicants and recipients.

(c) The IV-D agency shall inform an individual who is eligible for services under § 302.33 of this chapter that medical support services will be provided and shall provide the services specified in paragraph (b) of this section.

[73 FR 42441, July 21, 2008]

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2017-01-23 issue
Title: 27: Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms - Sections changed: 25
Title: 13: Business Credit and Assistance - Sections changed: 2
Title: 15: Commerce and Foreign Trade - Sections changed: 30
Title: 16: Commercial Practices - Sections changed: 1
Title: 17: Commodity and Securities Exchanges - Sections changed: 4
Title: 1: General Provisions - Sections changed: 15
Title: 45: Public Welfare - Sections changed: 64
Title: 47: Telecommunication - Sections changed: 7
Title: 50: Wildlife and Fisheries - Sections changed: 5

cfr/title-45-Public-Welfare/subtitle-B-Regulations-Relating-Public-Welfare/chapter-III-Office-Child-Support-Enforcement-Child-Support-Enforcement-Program-Administration-Children-Families-Department-Health-Human-Services/part-303-Standards-Program-Operations/section-303.31.md, after:

##### § 303.31 Securing and enforcing medical support obligations. #####

(a) For purposes of this section:

(1) Cash medical support means an amount ordered to be paid toward the cost of health insurance provided by a public entity or by another parent through employment or otherwise, or for other medical costs not covered by insurance.

(2) Health care coverage includes fee for service, health maintenance organization, preferred provider organization, and other types of private health insurance and public health care coverage under which medical services could be provided to the dependent child(ren).

(3) Cash medical support or the cost of health insurance is considered reasonable in cost if the cost to the parent responsible for providing medical support does not exceed five percent of his or her gross income or, at State option, a reasonable alternative income-based numeric standard defined in State law, regulations, or court rule having the force of law or State child support guidelines adopted in accordance with § 302.56(c) of this chapter.

(b) The State IV-D agency must:

(1) Petition the court or administrative authority to—

(i) Include health care coverage that is accessible to the child(ren), as defined by the State, and is available to the parent responsible for providing medical support and can be obtained for the child at reasonable cost, as defined under paragraph (a)(3) of this section, in new or modified court or administrative orders for support; and

(ii) Allocate the cost of coverage between the parents.

(2) If health care coverage described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section is not available at the time the order is entered or modified, petition to include cash medical support in new or modified orders until such time as health care coverage, that is accessible and reasonable in cost as defined under paragraph (a)(3) of this section, becomes available. In appropriate cases, as defined by the State, cash medical support may be sought in addition to health care coverage.

(3) Establish criteria, which are reflected in a record, to identify orders that do not address the health care needs of children based on—

(i) Evidence that health care coverage may be available to either parent at reasonable cost, as defined under paragraph (a)(3) of this section; and

(ii) Facts, as defined by State law, regulation, procedure, or other directive, and review and adjustment requirements under § 303.8(d) of this part, which are sufficient to warrant modification of the existing support order to address the health care needs of children in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section.

(4) Petition the court or administrative authority to modify support orders, in accordance with State child support guidelines, for cases identified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section to include health care coverage and/or cash medical support in accordance with paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.

(5) Periodically communicate with the Medicaid agency to determine whether there have been lapses in health insurance coverage for Medicaid applicants and recipients.

(c) The IV-D agency shall inform an individual who is eligible for services under § 302.33 of this chapter that medical support services will be provided and shall provide the services specified in paragraph (b) of this section.

[73 FR 42441, July 21, 2008, as amended at 81 FR 93566, Dec. 20, 2016]
