##### ยง 543.6 Completion of organization. #####

(a)(1) *Temporary officers.* When the Office approves an application for permission to organize a Federal savings association, the applicants shall constitute the organization committee and elect a chairperson, vice-chairperson, and a secretary, who shall act as the temporary officers of the association until their successors are duly elected and qualified. The temporary officers may effect compliance with any conditions prescribed by the Office.

(2) *Organization meeting.* Promptly upon receipt of a charter, the temporary officers shall call a meeting of the association's capital subscribers; notice of such meeting shall be mailed to each subscriber at least 5 days before the meeting day. Subscribers who have subscribed for a majority of the association's capital, present in person or by proxy, shall constitute a quorum. At such meeting, directors of the association shall be elected according to the association's charter and bylaws, and any other action permitted by such charter and bylaws may be taken; any such action shall be considered an acceptance by the association of such charter and of such bylaws, which shall be in the form provided in parts 544 and 552 of this chapter.

(b) *First meeting of directors.* Upon election, the association's board of directors shall hold a meeting to elect officers of the association as provided by its charter and bylaws and to take any other action necessary to permit operation of the association in accordance with law, the association's charter and bylaws, and these rules and regulations. When such officers have been bonded under ยง 563.190 of this chapter, they shall immediately collect the sums due on subscriptions to the association's capital.

(c) *Membership in Federal Home Loan Bank and insurance of accounts.* When a Federal savings association's charter is issued it must promptly qualify as a member of a Federal Home Loan Bank and meet all requirements necessary to obtain insurance of its accounts by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.

(d) *Failure to complete.* Organization of a Federal savings association is completed when the organization meeting and the first meeting of its directors have been held, permanent officers have been bonded, the association holds the cash required to be paid on subscriptions to its capital, if required, Federal Home Loan Bank membership has been obtained and Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance of accounts has been confirmed and any conditions imposed by the Office in connection with approval of the application have been met. If organization is not so completed within six months after issuance of a charter, or within such additional period as the Director or his or her designee may for good cause grant, and in the case of an interim Federal savings association, if a merger, or other transaction facilitated by the existence of an interim association, has not been approved, the charter shall become void and all cash collected on subscriptions shall thereupon be returned.