##### ยง 117.795 Jamaica Bay and Connecting Waterways. #####

(a) The draw of the Marine Parkway bridge, mile 3.0 over Rockaway Inlet, shall open on signal Monday through Friday from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. At all other times, the draw shall open on signal if at least eight hours notice is given; however, the draw shall open on signal if at least a one hour notice is given for the passage of U.S. Navy or National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration vessels.

(b) The draws of the New York City highway bridge, mile 0.8 across Mill Basin on Belt Parkway, need not be opened for the passage of vessels from noon to 9 p.m. on Sundays from May 15 to September 30, and on Memorial Day, Independence Day, and Labor Day. However, on these days, from two hours before to one hour after predicted high tide, the draw shall open on signal. For the purpose of this section, predicted high tide occurs 15 minutes later than that predicted for Sandy Hook, as given in the tide tables published by private entities using data provided by the National Ocean Service. At all times, public vessels of the United States and state or local vessels used for public safety shall be passed as soon as possible.

(c) The draw of the Beach Channel railroad bridge shall open on signal; except that, the draw need not open for the passage of vessel traffic, 6:45 a.m. to 8:20 a.m. and 5 p.m. to 6:45 p.m., Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays.

[CGD3 85-42, 50 FR 26713, June 28, 1985, as amended by USCG-2001-9286, 66 FR 33641, June 25, 2001; CGD01-06-033, 71 FR 61897, Oct. 20, 2006; USCG-2001-10881, 71 FR 70312, Dec. 4, 2006; 72 FR 50876, Sept. 5, 2007]