##### § 110.58 Cos Cob Harbor, Greenwich, Conn. #####

(a) *Area A.* Beginning at the mean low water line about 2,800 feet downstream from the easterly end of the New York, New Haven and Hartford Railroad Bridge at latitude 41°01′23″, longitude 73°35′40″; thence extending True west to latitude 41°01′23″, longitude 73°35′42″; thence extending southwesterly to a point at latitude 41°01′02″, longitude 73°35′50″; thence True east to a point on the shoreline at latitude 41°01′02″, longitude 73°35′48″; thence extending along the mean low water line to the point of beginning.

(b) *Area B.* Beginning at the mean low water line about 700 feet downstream from the westerly end of the New York, New Haven and Hartford Railroad Bridge at latitude 41°01′42″, longitude 73°35′47″; thence True east to latitude 41°01′42″, longitude 73°35′45″; thence southeasterly to latitude 41°01′23″, longitude 73°35′44″; thence southwesterly to latitude 41°01′04″, longitude 73°35′52″, thence southwesterly to latitude 41°01′02″, longitude 73°35′55″; thence True west to a point on shore on the northerly side of Goose Island at latitude 41°01′02″, longitude 73°36′00″; thence True north to a point at the mean low water line at latitude 41°01′05″, longitude 73°36′00″; thence along the mean low water line to the point of beginning.

Note:

The areas are principally for use by yachts and other recreational craft. Temporary floats or buoys for marking anchors will be allowed. Fixed mooring piles or stakes are prohibited. The anchoring of vessels and placing of temporary moorings will be under the jurisdiction, and at the discretion of the local Harbor Master. All moorings shall be so placed that no moored vessels will extend into the waters beyond the limits of the areas or closer than 50 feet to the Federal channel limits.