cfr/title-14-Aeronautics-Space/chapter-II-Office-Secretary-Department-Transportation-Aviation-Proceedings/subchapter-A-Economic-Regulations/part-240-Inspection-Accounts-Property/section-240.1.md, before:

##### § 240.1 Interpretation. #####

Link to an amendment published at 84 FR 15931, Apr. 16, 2019.

(a) In the exercise of the authority granted by section 407(e) of the Act, the authority of any special agent or auditor to inspect and examine lands, buildings, equipment, accounts, records, memorandums, papers or correspondence shall include the authority to make such notes and copies thereof as he deems appropriate.

(b) The term “special agent” and “auditor” are construed to mean any employee of the Bureau of Enforcement and any other employee of the Board specifically designated by it or by the Director, Office of Facilities and Operations.

(c) The issuance in the form set forth below of an identification card and credentials to any such employee shall be construed to be an order and direction of the Board to such individual to inspect and examine lands, buildings, equipment, accounts, records, and memorandums in accordance with the authority conferred on the Board by the Act.

United States of America, Civil Aeronautics Board, Washington, D.C.NumberExpires[photo]SignatureThis is to certify that\_\_\_\_\_\_, whose signature and photograph appear hereon is a duly designatedof the Civil Aeronautics Board and is authorized and directed to perform the duties of said office in accordance with the laws of the United States and regulations thereunder, and his authority will be respected accordingly.By authority of the Civil Aeronautics Board.SecretaryCivil Aeronautics BoardNameDate IssuedNumberHeightWeightHairEyesDate of Birth

The holder hereof is authorized to investigate violations of the Federal Aviation Act, as amended, collect evidence in cases in which the regulatory authority of the Civil Aeronautics Board is or may be involved and perform other duties imposed upon him by law.

Under the Federal Aviation Act and part 240 of the Economic Regulations of the Civil Aeronautics Board (14 CFR part 240), the duly accredited special agents and auditors of the Board are empowered at all times to obtain access to all lands, buildings and equipment of any air carrier or foreign air carrier and to inspect, examine, and make notes and copies of all accounts, records, memorandums, documents, papers and correspondence kept or required to be kept by any air carrier, foreign air carrier or ticket agent.

The issuance of these credentials to the holder hereof constitutes an order and direction on the part of the Civil Aeronautics Board to such individual to carry out these duties as aforesaid and as more fully described in part 240 of the Board's Economic Regulations.

Failure to honor these credentials will result in penalties as provided by law.

United States of America,Civil Aeronautics Board,Washington, D.C.(Secs. 204, 407, 701, 72 Stat. 743; 49 U.S.C. 1324, 1377, 1441)[ER-822, 38 FR 26601, Sept. 24, 1973, as amended by ER-914, 40 FR 27017, June 26, 1975; ER-941, 40 FR 58850, Dec. 19, 1975]

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2019-05-17 issue
Title: 14: Aeronautics and Space - Sections changed: 299
Title: 10: Energy - Sections changed: 4
Title: 48: Federal Acquisition Regulations System - Sections changed: 5
Title: 38: Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief - Sections changed: 3
Title: 40: Protection of Environment - Sections changed: 4
Title: 43: Public Lands: Interior - Sections changed: 3
Title: 50: Wildlife and Fisheries - Sections changed: 5

cfr/title-14-Aeronautics-Space/chapter-II-Office-Secretary-Department-Transportation-Aviation-Proceedings/subchapter-A-Economic-Regulations/part-240-Inspection-Accounts-Property/section-240.1.md, after:

##### § 240.1 Interpretation. #####

(a) In the exercise of the authority granted by 49 U.S.C. 41709, the authority of any special agent or auditor to inspect and examine lands, buildings, equipment, accounts, records, memorandums, papers or correspondence shall include the authority to make such notes and copies thereof as he or she deems appropriate.

(b) The terms “special agent” and “auditor” are construed to mean any employee of the Office of Aviation Enforcement and Proceedings and any other employee of the Department specifically designated by it or by the Director, Office of Security.

(c) The issuance in the form set forth in this paragraph (c) of an identification card and credentials to any such employee shall be construed to be an order and direction of the Department to such individual to inspect and examine lands, buildings, equipment, accounts, records, and memorandums in accordance with the authority conferred on the Department by 49 U.S.C. Subtitle VII.

THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION, OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF TRANSPORTATION[photo][number][expiration date]IS APPOINTED[title]

The bearer of this credential whose name and photograph appear hereon is authorized to enter upon, to inspect, and examine lands, buildings (including airport facilities), and equipment (including aircraft) of air carriers and foreign air carriers, and to inspect and copy records and papers of air carriers, foreign air carriers and ticket agents, in performance of his/her duties under 49 U.S.C. 41709, related acts, and regulations of the Department.

BY DIRECTION OF THE SECRETARY[Doc. No. DOT-OST-2014-0140, 84 FR 15931, Apr. 16, 2019]
