##### § 314.10 Procedures for release of EDA's Property interest. #####

Link to an amendment published at 82 FR 57062, Dec. 1, 2017.

(a) *General.* As provided in § 314.2 of this chapter, the Federal Interest in Property acquired or improved with Investment Assistance extends for the duration of the Estimated Useful Life of the Project. While EDA determines the length of the Estimated Useful Life at the time of Investment award, in recent years, the length generally extends for 15 to 20 years, depending on the nature of the improvement. Prior to 1999, the Estimated Useful Life of some Projects, such as water and wastewater Projects, could extend for 40 years or more. Upon request of the Recipient, EDA will release the Federal Interest in Project Property upon expiration of the Estimated Useful Life as established in the terms and conditions of the Investment Assistance and in accord with the requirements of this section and part. This section provides procedures to govern the manner of obtaining a release of the Federal Interest.

(b) *Release of Property after the expiration of the Estimated Useful Life.* At the expiration of a Project's Estimated Useful Life and upon the written request of a Recipient, the Assistant Secretary may release the Federal Interest in Project Property if EDA determines that the Recipient has made a good faith effort to fulfill all terms and conditions of the Investment Assistance. The determination provided for in this paragraph shall be established at the time of Recipient's written request and shall be based, at least in part, on the facts and circumstances provided in writing by Recipient. For a Project in which a Recorded Statement as provided for in §§ 314.8 and 314.9 of this chapter has been recorded, EDA will provide for the release by executing an instrument in recordable form. The release will terminate the Investment as of the date of its execution and satisfy the Recorded Statement.

(c) *Release prior to expiration of the Estimated Useful Life.* If the Recipient will no longer use the Project Property in accord with the requirements of the terms and conditions of the Investment within the time period of the Estimated Useful Life, EDA will determine if such use by the Recipient constitutes an Unauthorized Use of Property and require compensation for the Federal Interest as provided in § 314.4 and this part. EDA may release the Federal Interest in connection with such Property upon receipt of full payment in compensation of the Federal Interest.

(d) *Release of certain Property after 20 years.* In accord with section 601(d)(2) of PWEDA, upon the request of a Recipient and before the expiration of the Estimated Useful Life of a Project that exceeds 20 years, EDA may release any Real Property or tangible Personal Property interest held by EDA, in connection with Investment Assistance after the date that is 20 years after the date on which the Investment Assistance was awarded.

(e) *Limitations and Covenant of Use.* (1) EDA's release of the Federal Interest pursuant to this section is not automatic; it requires EDA's approval, which will not be withheld except for good cause or as otherwise required by law, as determined in EDA's sole discretion. As deemed appropriate, EDA may require the Recipient to take some action as a condition of the release.

(2) In determining whether to release the Federal Interest, EDA will review EDA's legal authority to release its interest, including the Recipient's performance under and conformance with the terms and conditions of the Investment Assistance; any use of Project Property in violation of § 314.3 or § 314.4 of this part; and other such factors as EDA deems appropriate.

(3) Notwithstanding any release of the Federal Interest under this section, a Recipient must ensure that Project Property is not used for inherently religious activities in violation of applicable Federal law and in violation of nondiscrimination requirements set forth in § 302.20 of this chapter. Accordingly, upon the release of the Federal Interest, the Recipient must execute a covenant of use that prohibits use of Real Property or tangible Personal Property for inherently religious activities prohibited by applicable Federal law and for any purpose that would violate the nondiscrimination requirements set forth in § 302.20 of this chapter.

(i) With respect to Real Property, the Recipient must record a covenant under this subsection in the jurisdiction where the Real Property is located in accordance with § 314.8.

(ii) With respect to items of tangible Personal Property, the Recipient must perfect and record a covenant under this subsection in accordance with applicable law, with continuances re-filed as appropriate, in accordance with § 314.9.

[79 FR 76139, Dec. 19, 2014]