##### ยง 314.3 Authorized Use of Property. #####

Link to an amendment published at 82 FR 57059, Dec. 1, 2017.

(a) During the Estimated Useful Life of the Project, the Recipient or Owner must use any Property acquired or improved in whole or in part with Investment Assistance only for authorized Project purposes as set out in the terms of the Investment Assistance. Such Property must not be Disposed of or encumbered without EDA's prior written authorization.

(b) Where EDA and the Recipient determine during the Estimated Useful Life of the Project that Property acquired or improved in whole or in part with Investment Assistance is no longer needed for the original purpose of the Investment Assistance, EDA, in its sole discretion, may approve the use of such Property in other Federal grant programs or in programs that have purposes consistent with those authorized by PWEDA and by this chapter.

(c) Where EDA determines that the authorized purpose of the Investment Assistance is to develop Real Property to be leased or sold, such sale or lease is permitted provided it is for Adequate Consideration and the sale is consistent with the authorized purpose of the Investment Assistance and with all applicable Investment Assistance requirements, including nondiscrimination and environmental compliance.

(d) EDA, in its sole discretion, may approve the transfer of any Property from a Recipient to a Successor Recipient (or from one Successor Recipient to another Successor Recipient). The Recipient will remain responsible for complying with the rules of this part and the terms and conditions of the Investment Assistance for the period in which it is the Recipient. Thereafter, the Successor Recipient must comply with the rules of this part and with the same terms and conditions as were applicable to the Recipient (unless such terms and conditions are otherwise amended by EDA). The same rules apply to EDA-approved transfers of Property between Successor Recipients.

(e) When acquiring replacement Personal Property of equal or greater value than Personal Property originally acquired with Investment Assistance, the Recipient may, with EDA's approval, trade in such Personal Property originally acquired or sell the original Personal Property and use the proceeds for the acquisition of the replacement Personal Property; provided that the replacement Personal Property is for use in the Project. The replacement Personal Property is subject to the same requirements as the original Personal Property. In extraordinary and compelling circumstances, the Assistant Secretary may approve the replacement of Real Property used in a Project.

(f) With EDA's prior written approval, a Recipient may undertake an incidental use of Property that does not interfere with the scope of the Project or the economic purpose for which the Investment was made; provided that the Recipient is in compliance with applicable law and the terms and conditions of the Investment Assistance, and the incidental use of the Property will not violate the terms and conditions of the Investment Assistance or otherwise adversely affect the economic useful life of the Property. Eligible Applicants and Recipients should contact the appropriate regional office (whose contact information is available via the Internet at *http://www.eda.gov*) for guidelines on obtaining approval for incidental use of Property under this section.

[71 FR 56675, Sept. 27, 2006, as amended at 79 FR 76136, Dec. 19, 2014]