##### ยง 989.167 Disposal of reserve raisins. #####

(a) *Offer of reserve tonnage raisins for use in noncompetitive outlets.* Whenever the Committee proposes to offer to sell standard reserve tonnage raisins in noncompetitive outlets pursuant to ยง 989.67 (a) and (b), it shall promptly file with the Secretary complete information with respect thereto and the basis therefor. The Secretary shall have the right to disapprove, within seven calendar days, the making of such an offer or sale or any term or conditions thereof.

(b) *Determination of price of reserve tonnage sold for free tonnage use.* Whenever, pursuant to ยง 989.67(j), the Committee concludes, with respect to any varietal type of raisins, that a downward trend in the price received by producers for free tonnage, or in the prices received by handlers for free tonnage packed raisins, makes it impracticable to sell reserve tonnage at the average price received by producers for free tonnage plus pooling costs, the Committee, subject to the requirements of ยง 99.67(j), may sell reserve tonnage raisins at the currently prevailing field price for free tonnage raisins of the same varietal type, unless such price is deemed to be unrepresentative of the current f.o.b. price of free tonnage packed raisins. In such an event, or if there is no current field price, the Committee shall make any offer of reserve tonnage at approximately the computed field price obtained by deducting from the current f.o.b. price for free tonnage packed raisins of the varietal type to be offered, the approximate recent packing and handling margin between such packed price and the field price for free tonnage raisins. This paragraph (b) shall not be in effect from July 30, 1984, through July 31, 1986.

(c) *Terms of reserve tonnage offers.* Whenever the Committee offers reserve tonnage raisins to handlers for use in free tonnage outlets, the Committee shall, among other terms and conditions of the offer, specify (1) the period in which each handler shall be given the opportunity to purchase his share of the offer, and (2) the period in which each eligible handler shall be given an opportunity to purchase his respective share of any reoffer. In the event reserve pool raisins are transferred by the Committee, the purchasing handler shall promptly empty the raisins from the containers used in the transfer so that the Committee may return the containers and pallets used in the transfer to the handler from whom the raisins were transferred within 10 business days from the date of transfer. Any handler who refuses to permit the containers in which reserve pool raisins are stored to leave his premises, shall, at his expense, place such raisins in containers supplied by the Committee.

[32 FR 15916, Nov. 21, 1967; 33 FR 2380 Jan. 31, 1968, as amended at 49 FR 30296, July 30, 1984]