##### § 95.1402 Special requirements for 406 MHz PLBs. #####

(a) All 406 MHz PLBs must meet all the technical and performance standards contained in RTCM 11010.2. RTMC 11010.2, “406 MHz Satellite Personal Locator Beacons (PLBs),” including Amendments 1 and 2, dated June 8, 2012 is incorporated by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a), and 1 CFR part 51. Copies of the document are available and may be obtained from the Radio Technical Commission for Maritime Services, 1611 N. Kent Street, Suite 605, Arlington, Virginia 22209. The document is available for inspection at Commission headquarters at 445 12th Street SW., Washington, DC 20554. Copies may also be inspected at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal\_register/code\_of\_federal\_regulations/ibr\_locations.html.*

(b) Beginning January 17, 2018, all new applications for certification of 406 MHz PLBs must demonstrate compliance with the requirements of RTCM 11010. 406 MHz PLBs that do not meet the requirements of RTCM 11010 shall not be manufactured, imported, or sold in the United States beginning January 17, 2020.

(c) Before a 406 MHz PLB certification application is submitted to the Commission, the applicant must have obtained certification from a test facility recognized by one of the COSPAS/SARSAT Partners that the PLB satisfies the standards incorporated in RTCM 11010. Additionally, an independent test must certify that the PLB complies with the electrical and environmental standards associated with the RTCM Recommended Standards.

(d) The procedures of Notification by the equipment manufacturer and Certification from the designated Telecommunications Certification Body are contained in subpart J of part 2 of this chapter.

(e) An identification code, recognized by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), the United States Program Manager for the 406 MHz COSPAS/SARSAT satellite system, must be programmed in each PLB unit to establish a unique identification for each PLB station. With each marketable PLB unit, the manufacturer or grantee must include a postage pre-paid registration card printed with the PLB identification code addressed to: NOAA/SARSAT Beacon Registration, NSOF, E/SPO53, 1315 East West Hwy, Silver Spring, MD 20910-9684. The registration card must request the owner's name, address, telephone number, alternate emergency contact and include the following statement: “WARNING” failure to register this PLB with NOAA could result in a monetary forfeiture order being issued to the owner.”

(f) To enhance protection of life and property, it is mandatory that each 406 MHz PLB be registered with NOAA and that information be kept up-to-date. In addition to the identification plate or label requirements contained in §§ 2.925 and 2.926 of this chapter, each 406 MHz PLB must be provided on the outside with a clearly discernable permanent plate or label containing the following statement: “The owner of this 406 MHz PLB must register the NOAA identification code contained on this label with the National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) whose address is: NOAA/SARSAT Beacon Registration, NSOF, E/SPO53, 1315 East West Hwy, Silver Spring, MD 20910-9684.” Owners shall advise NOAA in writing upon change of PLB ownership, or any other change in registration information. NOAA will provide registrants with proof of registration and change of registration postcards. In the alternative to registration by postcard, users may register 406 MHz PLBs online at *www.beaconregistration.noaa.gov.*

(g) For 406 MHz PLBs with identification codes that can be changed after manufacture, the identification code shown on the plate or label must be easily replaceable using commonly available tools.

[68 FR 32678, June 2, 2003, as amended at 79 FR 77919, Dec. 29, 2014; 81 FR 90749, Dec. 15, 2016]