##### § 146.68 Transfer for transportation or exportation; estimated production. #####

Link to an amendment published at 82 FR 45407, Sept. 28, 2017.

(a) *Weekly permit.* The port director may allow the person making entry for merchandise provided for in § 146.63(c) to file an application for a weekly permit to enter and release merchandise during a calendar week for exportation, transportation, or transportation and exportation. The application will be on Customs Form 7512 stating at the top the words “Application for Weekly Zone Permit,” and will be filed with the port director. The application must be accompanied by a *pro forma* invoice or schedule like that required in § 146.63(c)(1). If actual transfers will exceed the estimate for the week, the person with the right to make entry shall file a supplemental Customs Form 7512 to cover the additional merchandise to be transferred from the subzone or zone site. No merchandise covered by the weekly permit may be transferred from the zone before approval of the application by the port director.

(b) *Individual entries.* After approval of the application for a weekly permit by the port director, the person making entry will be authorized to execute individual Customs Forms 7512 for exportation, transportation, or transportation and exportation of the merchandise covered by permit. Upon transfer of the merchandise, the operator shall obtain a receipt from the carrier on Customs Form 7512 to ensure its assumption of liability under the carrier's or cartman's bond. Customs will consider the time of entry to be when the removing carrier signs the receipt for the merchandise. The operator shall give the bonded carrier a copy of the individual Customs Form 7512, as provided for in § 18.2(c) of this chapter. The operator also shall ensure that the port director receives a copy of the Customs Form 7512 by the end of the next working day after the carrier has receipted for the merchandise.

(c) *Statement of merchandise entered.* The person making entry for merchandise under an approved weekly permit shall file with the port director, by the close of business on the second working day of the week following the week designated on the permit, a statement of the merchandise entered under that permit. The statement must list each Customs Form 7512 by its unique I.T. number, and will provide a reconciliation of the quantities on the weekly permit with the manifested quantities on the individual Customs Forms 7512 submitted to Customs, as well as an explanation of any discrepancy.

[T.D. 86-16, 51 FR 5049, Feb. 11, 1986, as amended by T.D. 00-22, 65 FR 16518, Mar. 29, 2000]