##### § 746.8 Sanctions against Russia and Belarus. #####

(a) *License requirements.* For purposes of paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section, commodities and software classified under ECCNs 5A992 or 5D992 that have been 'classified in accordance with § 740.17' do not require a license to or within Russia or Belarus for civil end-users that are wholly-owned U.S. subsidiaries, foreign subsidiaries of U.S. companies that are joint ventures with other U.S. companies, joint ventures of U.S. companies with companies headquartered in countries from Country Group A:5 and A:6 in supplement no. 1 to part 740 of the EAR countries, the wholly-owned subsidiaries of companies headquartered in countries from Country Group A:5 and A:6 in supplement no. 1 to part 740, or joint ventures of companies headquartered in Country Group A:5 and A:6 with other companies headquartered in Country Groups A:5 and A:6.

(1) *Items classified in any ECCN on the CCL.* In addition to license requirements specified on the Commerce Control List (CCL) in supplement no. 1 to part 774 of the EAR and in other provisions of the EAR, including part 744 and § 746.5, a license is required, excluding deemed exports and deemed reexports, to export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) to or within Russia or Belarus any item subject to the EAR and specified in any Export Control Classification Number (ECCN) on the CCL.

(2) *Foreign-produced “direct product” items subject to the EAR under Russia/Belarus foreign “direct product” (FDP) rule.* Except as described in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, a license is required to reexport, export from abroad, or transfer (in-country) to any destination any foreign-produced item subject to the EAR under the Russia/Belarus FDP rule described in § 734.9(f) of the EAR.

(3) *Foreign-produced “direct product” items subject to the EAR under Russia/Belarus-Military End User FDP rule.* Except as described in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, a license is required to reexport, export from abroad, or transfer (in-country) to or within any destination any foreign-produced item subject to the EAR under § 734.9(g) of the EAR.

(4) *Exclusion from license requirements under paragraphs (a)(2) and (3) of this section.* The countries listed in supplement No. 3 to this part have committed to implementing substantially similar export controls on Russia and Belarus under their domestic laws. Therefore, exports or reexports from the countries described in this supplement no. 3 to this part or transfers (in-country) within the countries described in this supplement are not subject to the license requirements described in paragraphs (a)(2) and (3) of this section, unless a limit to the exclusion is described in the Scope column in supplement no. 3 to this part.

(5) *Exclusion from scope of U.S.-origin controlled content under paragraph (a)(1) of this section.* For purposes of determining U.S.-origin controlled content under supplement no. 2 to part 734 of the EAR, paragraph (a)(1) of this section when making a *de minimis* calculation for reexports and exports from abroad to Russia or Belarus, the license requirements in paragraph (a)(1) of this section are not used to determine controlled U.S.-origin content in a foreign-made item, provided the criteria in paragraphs (a)(5)(i) and (ii) of this section are met:

(i) The U.S.-origin content is described in an Anti-Terrorism (AT)-only ECCN and is not otherwise excluded from the applicable Scope column in supplement No. 3 to this part. For purposes of this paragraph (a)(5), AT-only items mean any ECCN that only specifies either only AT in the reason for control paragraph of the ECCN or is classified under ECCN 9A991; and

(ii) The foreign made item will be reexported or exported from abroad from a country described in supplement no. 3 to this part.

Note 1 to paragraph (a).

A 'military end user' for purposes of paragraphs (a)(3) and (4) of this section is any entity listed on the Entity List in supplement no. 4 to part 744 of the EAR with a footnote 3 designation.

(b) *Licensing policy.* With limited exceptions, applications for the export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) of any item that requires a license for export or reexport to or transfer pursuant to the requirements of this section will be reviewed with a policy of denial. The following types of license applications for licenses required under paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis: applications related to safety of flight; applications related to maritime safety; applications for civil nuclear safety; applications to meet humanitarian needs; applications that support government space cooperation; applications for items destined to wholly-owned U.S. subsidiaries, foreign subsidiaries of U.S. companies that are joint ventures with other U.S. companies, joint ventures of U.S. companies with companies headquartered in countries from Country Group A:5 and A:6 in supplement No. 1 to part 740 of the EAR, the wholly-owned subsidiaries of companies headquartered in countries from Country Group A:5 and A:6 in supplement No. 1 to part 740, joint ventures of companies headquartered in Country Groups A:5 and A:6 with other companies headquartered in Country Groups A:5 and A:6; applications for companies headquartered in the United States or in Country Groups A:5 and A:6, in support of civil telecommunications infrastructure; and government-to-government activities. In reviewing such applications, whether the transaction in question would benefit the Russian or Belarusian government or defense sector are factors that will be taken into consideration. License applications required under paragraph (a)(3) of this section will be reviewed under a policy of denial in all cases.

(c) *License exceptions.* No license exceptions may overcome the license requirements in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, except as specified in the Entity List entry for a Footnote 3 entity on the Entity List in supplement no. 4 to part 744 of the EAR. No license exceptions may overcome the license requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section except the following license exceptions identified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (7) of this section.

(1) License Exception TMP for items for use by the news media as set forth in § 740.9(a)(9) of the EAR.

(2) License Exception GOV (§ 740.11(b) of the EAR).

(3) License Exception TSU for software updates for civil end-users that are wholly-owned U.S. subsidiaries, foreign subsidiaries of U.S. companies that are joint ventures with other U.S. companies, joint ventures of U.S. companies with companies headquartered in countries from Country Group A:5 and A:6 in supplement no. 1 to part 740 of the EAR countries, the wholly-owned subsidiaries of companies headquartered in countries from Country Group A:5 and A:6 in supplement no. 1 to part 740, or joint ventures of companies headquartered in Country Group A:5 and A:6 with other companies headquartered in Country Groups A:5 and A:6 (§ 740.13(c) of the EAR).

(4) License Exception BAG, excluding firearms and ammunition (§ 740.14, excluding paragraph (e), of the EAR).

(5) License Exception AVS, excluding any aircraft registered in, owned or controlled by, or under charter or lease by Russia or Belarus or a national of Russia or Belarus (§ 740.15(a) and (b) of the EAR).

(6) License Exception ENC for civil end-users that are wholly-owned U.S. subsidiaries, foreign subsidiaries of U.S. companies that are joint ventures with other U.S. companies, joint ventures of U.S. companies with companies headquartered in countries from Country Group A:5 and A:6 in supplement no. 1 to part 740 of the EAR countries, the wholly-owned subsidiaries of companies headquartered in countries from Country Group A:5 and A:6 in supplement no. 1 to part 740, or joint ventures of companies headquartered in Country Group A:5 and A:6 with other companies headquartered in Country Groups A:5 and A:6 (§ 740.13(c) of the EAR) (§ 740.17 of the EAR).

(7) License Exception CCD (§ 740.19 of the EAR).

[87 FR 13062, Mar. 8, 2022, as amended at 87 FR 22132, Apr. 14, 2022; 87 FR 34153, June 6, 2022]