##### § 24.13 Car, compartment, and package seals; kind, procurement. #####

(a) Customs seals accepted pursuant to § 24.13a of this chapter shall be used in sealing openings, packages, conveyances, or articles requiring the security provided by such sealing.

(b) Red in-bond and high security red in-bond seals used for sealing imported merchandise shipped between ports in the United States shall be stamped “U.S. Customs in Bond.” Uncolored seals used to seal containers of commercial traveler's samples transiting the United States as provided by § 123.52 of this chapter shall be stamped “Canada-United States Customs.” [U.S. Transit], and uncolored seals used to seal containers of commercial traveler's samples transiting the United States as provided by § 123.52 of this chapter shall be stamped “Canada-United States Customs.” Blue in-transit seals used to seal merchandise transiting foreign territory or waters between ports in the United States as provided in § 123.24 of this chapter shall be stamped “U.S. Customs In-Transit.” Yellow in-transit seals used on rail shipments of merchandise and on containers of commercial traveler's samples transiting Canada between U.S. ports as provided in §§ 123.24 and 123.51 of this chapter shall be stamped [U.S. Customs]

[Can. Transit] for use on railroad cars, and “United States-Canada Customs” for use on samples. Uncolored seals used for Customs purposes other than for (1) shipping in bond, (2) shipping by other than a bonded common carrier in accordance with section 553, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended, or (3) shipping in transit shall be stamped “U.S. Customs.” All seals (except uncolored in-transit seals on containers of commercial traveler's samples and seals for use on airline liquor kits) shall be stamped with the name of the port for which they are ordered. Each strap seal shall be stamped with a serial number. Each automatic metal seal shall be stamped with a symbol number and, when required, with a serial number.

(c) *Purchase of seals.* Bonded carriers of merchandise, commercial associations representing the foregoing or comparable organizations approved by the port director under paragraph (f) of this section, a foreign trade zone operator and bonded warehouse proprietors may purchase quantity supplies of in-bond and in-transit seals from manufacturers approved under the provisions of § 24.13a. The order shall be prepared by the purchaser and, except as hereinafter noted, shall be confined to seals for use at one port and shall specify the kind and quantity of seals desired, the name of the port at which they are to be used, and the name and address of the consignee to whom they are to be shipped. Seals for use on airline liquor kits need not specify the name of the port at which they are to be used, and orders for such seals need not be confined to seals for use at one port. Carriers and bonded warehouse proprietors may purchase small emergency supplies of in-bond and in-transit seals from port directors, who will keep a supply of such seals for this purpose. An order for green or uncolored in-transit seals shall be submitted to the office of the Director of Customs-Excise Inspection, Ottowa, Canada, for approval and forwarding to the manufacturer. An order for green strap-in bond seals for use on railroad cars must stipulate that the seals are to be consigned to the collector of customs and excise in Canada at the port indicated on the seals for entry purposes and storage under Customs lock and key.

(d) The manufacturer or supplier shall ship the seals to the consignee named in the order and shall advise the director of the port to which the seals are shipped as to the kind and quantity of seals shipped, the name of the port (where required), serial numbers, and symbol number (where required) stamped thereon, the name and address of the consignee, and the date of shipment.

(e) [Reserved]

(f) *Port director approval required.* In-bond seals may be purchased only by a foreign trade zone operator or Customs bonded warehouse proprietor, a customs bonded carrier, a nonbonded carrier permitted to transport articles in accordance with section 553, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1553) or in the case of red in-bond and high security red in-bond seals, the carrier's commercial association or comparable representative approved by the port director. In-transit seals may be purchased by a bonded or other carrier of merchandise or, in the case of blue in-transit seals, by the carrier's commercial association or comparable representative approved by the port director. Except for uncolored in-transit seals, uncolored Customs seals may not be purchased by private interests and shall be furnished by port directors for authorized use without charge. In-bond and in-transit seals sold by port directors shall be charged for at the rate of 10 cents per seal, except for high security red in-bond seals which shall be charged for at the current manufacturer's list price for the quantity purchased.

[28 FR 14808, Dec. 31, 1963]Editorial Note:For Federal Register citations affecting § 24.13, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at *www.govinfo.gov.*