##### ยง 330.203 Action on applications for permits to move plant pests; form of and conditions in permits. #####

The Deputy Administrator, having considered an application for permit to move a plant pest, shall approve or deny the application in accordance with ยง 330.204. If the application is denied, the applicant shall be furnished the reasons therefor. If the application is approved, the Deputy Administrator shall issue the permit including any conditions which, in the opinion of the Deputy Administrator, are necessary to prevent dissemination of plant pests into the United States or interstate. Such conditions may include requirements for inspection of the premises where the plant pests are to be handled, after their movement under the permits, to determine whether the facilities thereat are adequate to prevent plant pest dissemination and the conditions of the permit are otherwise being observed. Permits authorizing movement of plant pests through the United States will include shipping instructions as to routing, labelling, and similar requirements as conditions of the permits. Any applicable conditions prescribed in administrative instructions may be incorporated in a written permit by citation, but shall be applicable whether or not so cited. The Deputy Administrator may, prior to the issuance of the permit, require the applicant to agree in writing to the conditions under which the plant pests will be safeguarded. The permits may be issued in a prescribed form or in letter form, or a combination thereof. A permit without conditions may be issued orally.