##### ยง 330.211 Labeling of plant pests for movement under permits. #####

(a) *Interstate movement.* For interstate movements of plant pests a label shall be attached to each parcel containing the pests as evidence that the movement of the plant pests is authorized. Such label shall also disclose the contents of the parcel.

(b) *Movement into or through the United States from places outside thereof by mail or cargo.* (1) When a permit authorizing the movement of plant pests into the United States from any place outside thereof is issued to an applicant under this part, it will be accompanied by distinctive labels, with instructions for their use by the foreign shipper. Such labels will be issued in quantity sufficient to permit attaching one to each parcel to be moved. The labels will direct the parcels to specified inspection stations of the Plant Protection and Quarantine Programs, or other designated points, for clearance. The stations will be notified by the Deputy Administrator in advance of the expected arrival of the plant pests. Plant pests so moved by mail may be refused entry unless the containers thereof bear such labels. Cargo shipments of plant pests so moved may be refused entry unless they bear such labels or are otherwise plainly marked to identify the contents.

(2) Any labelling requirements with respect to the movement of plant pests through the United States will be included in shipping instructions issued as conditions of the permits.

(c) *Misuse of labels.* No labels unused in accordance with the terms of the permit may be used for the movement of any other plant pest. The Plant Protection Act provides for a penalty2/\> for the misuse of such labels. Any unauthorized movement of plant pests under a label will be refused by the inspector, and the plant pests may be destroyed or otherwise dealt with as set forth in ยง 330.106 if deemed necessary as an emergency measure.

2 Section 424 of the Plant Protection Act (7 U.S.C. 7734) provides that persons who violate this act, or who forge, counterfeit or - without authority from the Secretary - use, alter, deface, or destroy any certificate, permit or other document may, after notice and opportunity for a hearing, be assessed a civil penalty that does not exceed the greater of: (a) $50,000 for individuals, except that the civil penalty may not exceed $1,000 in the case of an initial violation by an individual moving regulated articles not for monetary gain; $250,000 for any other person or legal entity, such as partnerships, corporations, associations, or joint ventures; and $500,000 for all violations adjudicated in a single proceeding; or (b) twice the gross pecuniary gain derived from or loss caused by any violation, forgery, counterfeiting, unauthorized use, defacing, or destruction of a certificate, permit, or other document provided for by this act. Section 424 of the Plant Protection Act also provides penalties for criminal violations, under which knowing violators of the act may be found guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, fined in accordance with title 18 of the United States Code, imprisoned for a period not to exceed 1 year, or both.

(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0054)[24 FR 10825, Dec. 29, 1959, as amended at 48 FR 57466, Dec. 30, 1983; 66 FR 21058, Apr. 27, 2001]