##### § 3575.42 Design and construction requirements. #####

The lender will provide the Agency with a written certification at the end of construction that all funds were utilized for authorized purposes. The borrower and the lender will authorize designs and plans based upon the preliminary architectural and engineering reports or plans approved by the lender and concurred in by the Agency. The borrower will take into consideration any lender or Agency comments when the facility is being designed.

(a) *Architectural and engineering practices.* All project facilities must be designed utilizing accepted architectural and engineering practices and must conform to applicable Federal, State, and local codes and requirements. The lender must ensure that the planned project will be completed within the available funds and, once completed, will be suitable for the borrower's needs.

(b) *Construction monitoring.* The lender will monitor the progress of construction and undertake the reviews and inspections necessary to ensure that construction proceeds in accordance with the approved plans, specifications, and contract documents and that funds are used for eligible project costs. The lender must expeditiously report any problems in project development to the Agency.

(c) *Equal employment opportunities.* For all construction contracts in excess of $10,000, the contractor must comply with Executive Order 11246 entitled “Equal Employment Opportunity” as amended and as supplemented by applicable Department of Labor regulations (41 CFR part 60-1). The borrower and lender are responsible for ensuring that the contractor complies with these requirements.

(d) *Americans with Disabilities Act.* Community Facilities loans which involve the construction of, or addition to, facilities that accommodate the public and commercial facilities as defined by the Americans with Disabilities Act (42 U.S.C. 12181 - *et seq.*) must comply with that Act. The lender and borrower are responsible for compliance.