##### § 1.861-14 Special rules for allocating and apportioning certain expenses (other than interest expense) of an affiliated group of corporations. #####

(a)-(c) [Reserved]. For further guidance, see § 1.861-14T(a) through (c).

(d) *Definition of affiliated group* - (1) *General rule.* For purposes of this section, the term *affiliated group* has the same meaning as is given that term by section 1504, except that section 936 corporations (as defined in § 1.861-11(d)(2)(ii)) are also included within the affiliated group to the extent provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section. Section 1504(a) defines an affiliated group as one or more chains of includible corporations connected through 80-percent stock ownership with a common parent corporation which is an includible corporation (as defined in section 1504(b)). In the case of a corporation that either becomes or ceases to be a member of the group during the course of the corporation's taxable year, only the expenses incurred by the group member during the period of membership shall be allocated and apportioned as if all members of the group were a single corporation. In this regard, the apportionment factor chosen shall relate only to the period of membership. For example, if apportionment on the basis of assets is chosen, the average amount of assets (tax book value or fair market value) for the taxable year shall be multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of months of the corporation's taxable year during which the corporation was a member of the affiliated group, and the denominator of which is the number of months within the corporation's taxable year. If apportionment on the basis of gross income is chosen, only gross income generated during the period of membership shall be taken into account. If apportionment on the basis of units sold or sales receipts is chosen, only units sold or sales receipts during the period of membership shall be taken into account. Expenses incurred by the group member during its taxable year, but not during the period of membership, shall be allocated and apportioned without regard to other members of the group. This paragraph (d)(1) applies to taxable years beginning after December 31, 1989.

(2) *Inclusion of section 936 corporations* - (i) *General rule.* Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section, the exclusion from the affiliated group of section 936 corporations under section 1504(b)(4) does not apply for purposes of this section. Thus, a section 936 corporation that meets the ownership requirements of section 1504(a) is a member of the affiliated group.

(ii) *Exception for purposes of alternative minimum tax.* The exclusion from the affiliated group of section 936 corporations under section 1504(b)(4) shall be operative for purposes of the application of this section solely in determining the amount of foreign source alternative minimum taxable income within each separate category and the alternative minimum tax foreign tax credit pursuant to section 59(a). Thus, a section 936 corporation that meets the ownership requirements of section 1504(a) is not a member of the affiliated group for purposes of determining the amount of foreign source alternative minimum taxable income within each separate category and the alternative minimum tax foreign tax credit pursuant to section 59(a).

(iii) *Effective date.* This paragraph (d)(2) applies to taxable years beginning after December 31, 1989.

(d)(3) through (e)(5) [Reserved]. For further guidance, see § 1.861-14T(d)(3) through (e)(5).

(e)(6) *Charitable contribution expenses* - (i) *In general.* A deduction for a charitable contribution by a member of an affiliated group shall be allocated and apportioned under the rules of §§ 1.861-8(e)(12) and 1.861-14T(c)(1).

(ii) *Effective date.* (A) The rules of this paragraph shall apply to charitable contributions subject to § 1.861-8(e)(12)(i) that are made on or after July 28, 2004, and, for taxpayers applying the second sentence of § 1.861-8(e)(12)(iv)(A), to charitable contributions made during the taxable year ending on or after July 28, 2004.

(B) The rules of this paragraph shall apply to charitable contributions subject to § 1.861-8(e)(12)(ii) that are made on or after July 14, 2005, and, for taxpayers applying the second sentence of § 1.861-8(e)(12)(iv)(B), to charitable contributions made during the taxable year ending on or after July 14, 2005.

(f) through (j) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.861-14T(f) through (j).

[T.D. 8916, 66 FR 274, Jan. 3, 2001, as amended by T.D. 9211, 70 FR 40663, July 14, 2005]