##### § 1.861-9 Allocation and apportionment of interest expense. #####

(a) through (e)(1) [Reserved]. For further guidance, see § 1.861-9T(a) through (e)(1).

(2) *Corporate partners whose interest in the partnership is 10 percent or more.* A corporate partner shall apportion its interest expense, including the partner's distributive share of partnership interest expense, by reference to the partner's assets, including the partner's pro rata share of partnership assets, under the rules of paragraph (f) of this section if the corporate partner's direct and indirect interest in the partnership (as determined under the attribution rules of section 318) is 10 percent or more. A corporation using the tax book value method or alternative tax book value method of apportionment shall use the partnership's inside basis in its assets, including adjustments under sections 734(b) and 743(b), if any, and adjusted to the extent required under § 1.861-10T(d)(2). A corporation using the fair market value method of apportionment shall use the fair market value of the partnership's assets, adjusted to the extent required under § 1.861-10T(d)(2).

(3) *Individual partners who are general partners or who are limited partners with an interest in the partnership of 10 percent or more.* An individual partner is subject to the rules of this paragraph (e)(3) if either the individual is a general partner or the individual's direct and indirect interest (as determined under the attribution rules of section 318) in the partnership is 10 percent or more. The individual shall first classify his or her distributive share of partnership interest expense as interest incurred in the active conduct of a trade or business, as passive activity interest, or as investment interest under regulations issued under sections 163 and 469. The individual must then apportion his or her interest expense, including the partner's distributive share of partnership interest expense, under the rules of paragraph (d) of this section. Each such individual partner shall take into account his or her distributive share of the partnership gross income or pro rata share of the partnership assets in applying such rules. An individual using the tax book value or alternative tax book value method of apportionment shall use the partnership's inside basis in its assets, including adjustments under sections 734(b) and 743(b), if any, and adjusted to the extent required under § 1.861-10T(d)(2). An individual using the fair market value method of apportionment shall use the fair market value of the partnership's assets, adjusted to the extent required under § 1.861-10(d)(2).

(e)(4) through (f)(3)(i) [Reserved]. For further guidance, see § 1.861-9T(e)(4) through (f)(3)(i).

(f)(3)(ii) *Manner of election.* The election shall be made by filing the statement and providing the written notice described in § 1.964-1(c)(3)(ii) and (iii), respectively, at the time and in the manner described therein. For further guidance, *see* § 1.861-9T(f)(3)(ii).

(f)(3)(iii) and (iv) [Reserved] For further guidance, *see* § 1.861-9T(f)(3)(iii) and (iv).

(4) *Noncontrolled section 902 corporations* - (i) *In general.* For purposes of computing earnings and profits of a noncontrolled section 902 corporation (as defined in section 904(d)(2)(E)) for Federal tax purposes, the interest expense of a noncontrolled section 902 corporation may be apportioned using either the asset method described in § 1.861-9T(g) or the modified gross income method described in § 1.861-9T(j). A noncontrolled section 902 corporation that is not a controlled foreign corporation may elect to use a different method of apportionment than that elected by one or more of its shareholders. A noncontrolled section 902 corporation must use the same method of apportionment with respect to all its domestic corporate shareholders.

(ii) *Manner of election.* The election to use the asset method described in § 1.861-9T(g) or the modified gross income method described in § 1.861-9T(j) may be made either by the noncontrolled section 902 corporation or by the majority domestic corporate shareholders (as defined in § 1.964-1(c)(5)(ii)) on behalf of the noncontrolled section 902 corporation. The election shall be made by filing the statement and providing the written notice described in § 1.964-1(c)(3)(ii) and (iii), respectively, at the time and in the manner described therein. For further guidance, *see* § 1.861-9T(f)(4)(ii).

(iii) *Stock characterization.* In general, the stock of a noncontrolled section 902 corporation shall be characterized in the hands of any domestic corporation that meets the ownership requirements of section 902(a) with respect to the noncontrolled section 902 corporation, or in the hands of any member of the same qualified group as defined in section 902(b)(2), using the same method that the noncontrolled section 902 corporation uses to apportion its interest expense. Stock in a noncontrolled section 902 corporation shall be characterized as a passive category asset in the hands of any such shareholder that fails to meet the substantiation requirements of § 1.904-5(c)(4)(iii), or in the hands of any shareholder that is not eligible to compute an amount of foreign taxes deemed paid with respect to a dividend from the noncontrolled section 902 corporation for the taxable year. *See* § 1.861-12(c)(4).

(f)(5) through (h)(3) [Reserved]. For further guidance, see § 1.861-9T(f)(5) through (h)(3).

(h)(4) *Valuing related party debt and stock in related persons* - (i) *Related party debt.* For purposes of this section, the value of a debt obligation of a related person held by the taxpayer or another person related to the taxpayer equals the amount of the liability of the obligor related person.

(ii) *Stock in related persons.* The value of stock in a related person held by the taxpayer or by another person related to the taxpayer equals the sum of the following amounts reduced by the taxpayer's pro rata share of liabilities of such related person:

(A) The portion of the value of intangible assets of the taxpayer and related persons that is apportioned to such related person under § 1.861-9T(h)(2);

(B) The taxpayer's pro rata share of tangible assets held by the related person (as determined under § 1.861-9T(h)(1)(ii));

(C) The taxpayer's pro rata share of debt obligations of any related person held by the related person (as valued under paragraph (h)(4)(i) of this section); and

(D) The total value of stock in all related persons held by the related person as determined under this paragraph (h)(4).

(iii) *Example* - (A) *Facts.* USP, a domestic corporation, wholly owns CFC1 and owns 80% of CFC2, both foreign corporations. The aggregate trading value of USP's stock traded on established securities markets at the end of Year 1 is $700 and the amount of USP's liabilities to unrelated persons at the end of Year 1 is $400. Neither CFC1 nor CFC2 has liabilities to unrelated persons at the end of Year 1. USP owns plant and equipment valued at $500, CFC1 owns plant and equipmen t valued at $400, and CFC2 owns plant and equipment valued at $250. The value of these assets has been determined using generally accepted valuation techniques, as required by § 1.861-9T(h)(1)(ii). There is an outstanding loan from CFC2 to CFC1 in an amount of $100. There is also an outstanding loan from USP to CFC1 in an amount of $200.

(B) *Valuation of group assets.* Pursuant to § 1.861-9T(h)(1)(i), the aggregate value of USP's assets is $1100 (the $700 trading value of USP's stock increased by $400 of USP's liabilities to unrelated persons).

(C) *Valuation of tangible assets.* Pursuant to § 1.861-9T(h)(1)(ii), the value of USP's tangible assets and pro rata share of assets held by CFC1 and CFC2 is $1100 (the plant and equipment held directly by USP, valued at $500, plus USP's 100% pro rata share of the plant and equipment held by CFC1 valued at $400 and USP's 80% pro rata share of the plant and equipment held by CFC 2 valued at $200 (80% of $250)).

(D) *Computation of intangible asset value.* Pursuant to § 1.861-9T(h)(1)(iii), the value of the intangible assets of USP, CFC1, and CFC2 is $0 (total aggregate group asset value ($1100) determined in paragraph (B) less total tangible asset value ($1100) determined in paragraph (C)). Because the intangible asset value is zero, the provisions of § 1.861-9T(h)(2) and (3) relating to the apportionment and characterization of intangible assets do not apply.

(E) *Valuing related party debt obligations.* Pursuant to § 1.861-9(h)(4)(i), the value of the debt obligation of CFC1 held by CFC2 is equal to the amount of the liability, $100. The value of the debt obligation of CFC1 held by USP is equal to the amount of the liability, $200.

(F) *Valuing the stock of CFC1 and CFC2.* Pursuant to § 1.861-9(h)(4)(ii), the value of the stock of CFC2 held by USP is $280 (USP's 80% pro rata share of tangible assets of CFC2 included in paragraph (C) ($200) plus USP's 80% pro rata share of the debt obligation of CFC1 held by CFC2 valued in paragraph (E) ($80). The value of the stock of CFC1 held by USP is $100 (USP's 100% pro rata share of tangible assets of CFC1 included in paragraph (C) ($400) less USP's 100% pro rata share of the liabilities of CFC1 to USP and CFC2 ($300)).

(h)(5) *Characterizing stock in related persons* - (i) *General rule.* Stock in a related person held by the taxpayer or by another related person shall be characterized on the basis of the fair market value of the taxpayer's pro rata share of assets held by the related person attributed to each statutory grouping and the residual grouping under the stock characterization rules of § 1.861-12T(c)(3)(ii), except that the portion of the value of intangible assets of the taxpayer and related persons that is apportioned to the related person under § 1.861-9T(h)(2) shall be characterized on the basis of the net income before interest expense of the related person within each statutory grouping or residual grouping (excluding income that is passive under § 1.904-4(b)).

(ii) *Special rule for section 936 corporations regarding alternative minimum tax.* For purposes of characterizing stock in a related section 936 corporation in determining foreign source alternative minimum taxable income within each separate category and the alternative minimum tax foreign tax credit pursuant to section 59(a), the rules of § 1.861-9T(g)(3) shall apply and § 1.861-9(h)(5)(i) shall not apply. Thus, for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1989, and before January 1, 1994, stock in a related section 936 corporation is characterized for alternative minimum tax purposes as a foreign source passive asset because the stock produces foreign source passive dividend income under sections 861(a)(2)(A), 862(a)(2), and 904(d)(2)(A) and the regulations under those sections. For taxable years beginning after December 31, 1993, stock in a related section 936 corporation would be characterized for alternative minimum tax purposes as an asset subject to the separate limitation for section 936 corporation dividends because the stock produces foreign source dividend income that, for alternative minimum tax purposes, is subject to a separate foreign tax credit limitation under section 56(g)(4)(C)(iii)(IV). However, stock in a section 936 corporation is characterized as a U.S. source asset to the extent required by section 904(g). For the definition of the term *section 936 corporation,* see § 1.861-11(d)(2)(ii).

(6) [Reserved]. For further guidance, see § 1.861-9T(h)(6).

(i) *Alternative tax book value method* - (1) *Alternative value for certain tangible property.* A taxpayer may elect to determine the tax book value of its tangible property that is depreciated under section 168 (section 168 property) using the rules provided in this paragraph (i)(1) (the alternative tax book value method). The alternative tax book value method applies solely for purposes of apportioning expenses (including the calculation of the alternative minimum tax foreign tax credit pursuant to section 59(a)) under the asset method described in paragraph (g) of this section.

(i) The tax book value of section 168 property placed in service during or after the first taxable year to which the election to use the alternative tax book value method applies shall be determined as though such property were subject to the alternative depreciation system set forth in section 168(g) (or a successor provision) for the entire period that such property has been in service.

(ii) In the case of section 168 property placed in service prior to the first taxable year to which the election to use the alternative tax book value method applies, the tax book value of such property shall be determined under the depreciation method, convention, and recovery period provided for under section 168(g) for the first taxable year to which the election applies.

(iii) If a taxpayer revokes an election to use the alternative tax book value method (the prior election) and later makes another election to use the alternative tax book value method (the subsequent election) that is effective for a taxable year that begins within 3 years of the end of the last taxable year to which the prior election applied, the taxpayer shall determine the tax book value of its section 168 property as though the prior election has remained in effect.

(iv) The tax book value of section 168 property shall be determined without regard to the election to expense certain depreciable assets under section 179.

(v) *Examples.* The provisions of this paragraph (i)(1) are illustrated in the following examples:

Example 1.In 2000, a taxpayer purchases and places in service section 168 property used solely in the United States. In 2005, the taxpayer elects to use the alternative tax book value method, effective for the current taxable year. For purposes of determining the tax book value of its section 168 property, the taxpayer's depreciation deduction is determined by applying the method, convention, and recovery period rules of the alternative depreciation system under section 168(g)(2) as in effect in 2005 to the taxpayer's original cost basis in such property. In 2006, the taxpayer acquires and places in service in the United States new section 168 property. The tax book value of this section 168 property is determined under the rules of section 168(g)(2) applicable to property placed in service in 2006.Example 2.Assume the same facts as in *Example 1*, except that the taxpayer revokes the alternative tax book value method election effective for taxable year 2010. Additionally, in 2011, the taxpayer acquires new section 168 property and places it in service in the United States. If the taxpayer elects to use the alternative tax book value method effective for taxable year 2012, the taxpayer must determine the tax book value of its section 168 property as though the prior election still applied. Thus, the tax book value of property placed in service prior to 2005 would be determined by applying the method, convention, and recovery period rules of the alternative depreciation system under section 168(g)(2) applicable to property placed in service in 2005. The tax book value of section 168 property placed in service during any taxable year after 2004 would be determined by applying the method, convention, and recovery period rules of the alternative depreciation system under section 168(g)(2) applicable to property placed in service in such taxable year.

(2) *Timing and scope of election.* (i) Except as provided in this paragraph (i)(2), a taxpayer may elect to use the alternative tax book value method with respect to any taxable year beginning on or after March 26, 2004. However, pursuant to § 1.861-8T(c)(2), a taxpayer that has elected the fair market value method must obtain the consent of the Commissioner prior to electing the alternative tax book value method. Any election made pursuant to this paragraph (i)(2) shall apply to all members of an affiliated group of corporations as defined in §§ 1.861-11(d) and 1.861-11T(d). Any election made pursuant to this paragraph (i)(2) shall apply to all subsequent taxable years of the taxpayer unless revoked by the taxpayer. Revocation of such an election, other than in conjunction with an election to use the fair market value method, for a taxable year prior to the sixth taxable year for which the election applies requires the consent of the Commissioner.

(ii) *Example.* The provisions of this paragraph (i)(2) are illustrated in the following example:

Example.Corporation X, a calendar year taxpayer, elects on its original, timely filed tax return for the taxable year ending December 31, 2007, to use the alternative tax book value method for its 2007 year. The alternative tax book value method applies to Corporation X's 2007 year and all subsequent taxable years. Corporation X may not, without the consent of the Commissioner, revoke its election and determine tax book value using a method other than the alternative tax book value method with respect to any taxable year beginning before January 1, 2012. However, Corporation X may automatically elect to change from the alternative tax book value method to the fair market value method for any open year.

(3) *Certain other adjustments.* [Reserved]

(j) [Reserved]. For further guidance, see § 1.861-9T(j).

(k) *Effective/applicability date.* Paragraph (h)(5) of this section applies to taxable years beginning after December 31, 1989. Paragraph (i) of this section applies to taxable years beginning on or after March 26, 2004. Paragraphs (f)(3)(ii) and (4) of this section apply to taxable years of shareholders ending on or after April 20, 2009. See 26 CFR 1.861-9T(f)(3)(ii)(last sentence) and (4) (revised as of April 1, 2009) for rules applicable to taxable years of shareholders ending after the first day of the first taxable year of the noncontrolled section 902 corporation beginning after December 31, 2002, and ending before April 20, 2009. Paragraphs (e)(2), (e)(3) and (h)(4) apply to taxable years beginning on or after *July 16, 2014.* See 26 CFR 1.861-9T(e)(2) and (3) (revised as of April 1, 2014) for rules applicable to taxable years beginning after January 17, 2012, and before *July 16, 2014.* See 26 CFR 1.861-9T(e)(2) and (3) (revised as of April 1, 2011) for rules applicable to taxable years beginning on or before January 17, 2012. See 26 CFR 1.861-9T(h)(4) (revised as of April 1, 2014) for rules applicable to taxable years ending on or after January 17, 2012, and beginning before *July 16, 2014.* See 26 CFR 1.861-9T(h)(4) (revised as of April 1, 2011) for rules applicable to taxable years ending before January 17, 2012.

[T.D. 8916, 66 FR 272, Jan. 3, 2001, as amended by T.D. 9120, 69 FR 15675, Mar. 26, 2004; T.D. 9247, 71 FR 4814, Jan. 30, 2006; T.D. 9452, 74 FR 27873, June 11, 2009; T.D. 9456, 74 FR 46346, Sept. 9, 2009; T.D. 9676, 79 FR 41425, July 16, 2014; T.D. 9676, 79 FR 49683, Aug. 22, 2014]