##### ยง 1.170A-3 Reduction of charitable contribution for interest on certain indebtedness. #####

(a) *In general.* Section 170(f)(5) requires that the amount of a charitable contribution be reduced for certain interest to the extent necessary to avoid the deduction of the same amount both as an interest deduction under section 163 and as a deduction for charitable contributions under section 170. The reduction is to be determined in accordance with paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.

(b) *Interest attributable to postcontribution period.* In determining the amount to be taken into account as a charitable contribution for purposes of section 170, the amount determined without regard to section 170(f)(5) or this section shall be reduced by the amount of interest which has been paid, or is to be paid, by the taxpayer, which is attributable to any liability connected with the contribution, and which is attributable to any period of time after the making of the contribution. The deduction otherwise allowable for charitable contributions under section 170 is required to be reduced pursuant to section 170(f)(5) and this section only if, in connection with a charitable contribution, a liability is assumed by the recipient of the contribution or by any other person or if the charitable contribution is of property which is subject to a liability. Thus, if a charitable contribution is made in property and the transfer is conditioned upon the assumption of a liability by the donee or by some other person, the contribution must be reduced by the amount of any interest which has been paid, or will be paid, by the taxpayer, which is attributable to the liability, and which is attributable to any period after the making of the contribution. The adjustment referred to in this paragraph must also be made where the contributed property is subject to a liability and the value of the property reflects the payment by the donor of interest with respect to a period of time after the making of the contribution.

(c) *Interest attributable to precontribution period.* If, in connection with the charitable contribution of a bond, a liability is assumed by the recipient or by any other person, or if the bond is subject to a liability, then, in determining the amount to be taken into account as a charitable contribution under section 170, the amount determined without regard to section 170(f)(5) and this section shall, without regard to whether any reduction may be required by paragraph (b) of this section, also be reduced for interest which has been paid, or is to be paid, by the taxpayer on indebtedness incurred or continued to purchase or carry such bond, and which is attributable to any period before the making of the contribution. However, the reduction referred to in this paragraph shall be made only to the extent that such reduction does not exceed the interest (including bond discount and other interest equivalent) receivable on the bond, and attributable to any period before the making of the contribution which is not, by reason of the taxpayer's method of accounting, includible in the taxpayer's gross income for any taxable year. For purposes of section 170(f)(5) and this section the term *bond* means any bond, debenture, note, or certificate or other evidence of indebtedness.

(d) *Illustrations.* The application of this section may be illustrated by the following examples:

Example 1.On January 1, 1970, A, a cash basis taxpayer using the calendar year as the taxable year, contributed to a charitable organization real estate having a fair market value and adjusted basis of $10,000. In connection with the contribution the charitable organization assumed an indebtedness of $8,000 which A had incurred. On December 31, 1969, A prepaid one year's interest on that indebtedness for 1970, amounting to $960, and took an interest deduction of $960 for such amount. The amount of the gift, determined without regard to this section, is $2,960 ($10,000 less $8,000, the outstanding indebtedness, plus $960, the amount of prepaid interest). In determining the amount of the deduction for the charitable contribution, the value of the gift ($2,960) must be reduced by $960 to eliminate from the computation of such deduction that portion thereof for which A has been allowed an interest deduction.Example 2.(a) On January 1, 1970, B, an individual using the cash receipts and disbursements method of accounting, purchased for $9,950 a 51/2 percent $10,000, 20-year M Corporation bond, the interest on which was payable semiannually on June 30 and December 31. The M Corporation had issued the bond on January 1, 1960, at a discount of $720 from the principal amount. On December 1, 1970, B donated the bond to a charitable organization, and, in connection with the contribution, the charitable organization assumed an indebtedness of $7,000 which B had incurred to purchase and carry the bond.

(b) During the calendar year 1970 B paid accrued interest of $330 on the indebtedness for the period from January 1, 1970, to December 1, 1970, and has taken an interest deduction of $330 for such amount. No portion of the bond discount of $36 a year ($720 divided by 20 years) has been included in B's income, and of the $550 of annual interest receivable on the bond, he included in income only the June 30, 1970, payment of $275.

(c) The market value of the bond on December 1, 1970, was $9,902. Such value includes $229 of interest receivable which had accrued from July 1 to December 1, 1970.

(d) The amount of the charitable contribution determined without regard to this section is $2,902 ($9,902, the value of the property on the date of gift, less $7,000, the amount of the liability assumed by the charitable organization). In determining the amount of the allowable deduction for charitable contributions, the value of the gift ($2,902) must be reduced to eliminate from the deduction that portion thereof for which B has been allowed an interest deduction. Although the amount of such interest deduction was $330, the reduction required by this section is limited to $262, since the reduction is not in excess of the amount of interest income on the bond ($229 of accrued interest plus $33, the amount of bond discount attributable to the 11-month period B held the bond).

(e) *Effective date.* This section applies only to contributions paid in taxable years beginning after December 31, 1969.

[T.D. 7207, 37 FR 20775, Oct. 4, 1972]