##### ยง 1.312-12 Distributions of proceeds of loans guaranteed by the United States. #####

(a) The provisions of section 312(j) are applicable with respect to a loan, any portion of which is guaranteed by an agency of the United States Government without regard to the percentage of such loan subject to such guarantee.

(b) The application of section 312(j) is illustrated by the following example:

Example.Corporation A borrowed $1,000,000 for the purpose of construction of an apartment house, the cost and adjusted basis of which was $900,000. This loan was guaranteed by an agency of the United States Government. One year after such loan was made and after the completion of construction of the building (but before such corporation had received any income) it distributed $100,000 cash to its shareholders. The earnings and profits of the taxable year of such corporation are increased (pursuant to section 312(j)) by $100,000 immediately prior to such distribution and are decreased by $100,000 immediately after such distribution. Such decrease, however, does not reduce the earnings and profits below zero. Two years later, it has no accumulated earnings and has earnings of the taxable year of $100,000. Before it has made any payments on the loan, it distributes $200,000 to its shareholders. The earnings and profits of the taxable year of the corporation ($100,000) are increased by $100,000, the excess of the amount of the guaranteed loan over the adjusted basis of the apartment house (calculated without adjustment for depreciation). The entire amount of each distribution is treated as a distribution out of earnings and profits and, accordingly, as a taxable dividend.