##### § 1.586-1 Reserve for losses on loans of small business investment companies, etc. #####

(a) *General rule.* As an alternative to a deduction from gross income under section 166(a) for specific debts which become worthless in whole or in part, a taxpayer which is a financial institution to which section 586 and this section apply is allowed a deduction under section 166(c) for a reasonable addition to a reserve for bad debts provided such financial institution has adopted or adopts the reserve method of treating bad debts in accordance with paragraph (b) of § 1.166-1. In the case of such a taxpayer, the amount of the reasonable addition to such reserve for a taxable year beginning after July 11, 1969, shall be an amount determined by the taxpayer which does not exceed the amount computed under § 1.586-2. A financial institution to which section 586 and this section apply which adopts the reserve method is not entitled to charge-off any bad debts pursuant to section 166(a) with respect to a loan (as defined in § 1.586-2(c)(2)). Except as provided by § 1.586-2, regarding the manner of computation of the addition to the reserve for bad debts, the reserve for bad debts of a financial institution to which this section applies shall be maintained in the same manner as is provided by section 166(c) and the regulations thereunder with respect to reserves for bad debts. Except as provided by this section, no deduction is allowable for an addition to a reserve for bad debts of a financial institution to which section 586 and this section apply. For rules relating to deduction with respect to debts which are not loans (as defined in § 1.586-2(c)(2)), see section 166(a) and the regulations thereunder.

(b) *Application of section.* Section 586 and this section shall apply only to the following financial institutions:

(1) Any small business investment company operating under the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 as amended and supplemented (72 Stat. 689), and

(2) Any business development corporation, which for purposes of this section, means a corporation which was created by or pursuant to an act of a State legislature for purposes of promoting, maintaining, and assisting the economy and industry within such State on a regional or statewide basis by making loans which would generally not be made by banks (as defined in section 581 and the regulations thereunder) within such region or State in the ordinary course of their businesses (except on the basis of a partial participation), and which is operated primarily for such purposes.

[T.D. 7444, 41 FR 53482, Dec. 7, 1976]