##### § 1485.15 Operational procedures for brand programs. #####

(a) Where CCC approves an application by a MAP Participant to run a brand promotion program that will include brand Participants, the MAP Participant shall establish brand program operational procedures. The MAP Participant annually shall submit to CCC for approval its proposed brand program operational procedures for such program year. CCC will notify all new and existing MAP Participants in writing in each Participant's annual approval letter and through the FAS Web site as to applicable submission dates for and dates for approvals of brand program operation procedures. Such procedures shall include, at a minimum, a brand program application, application procedures, application review criteria, brand participant eligibility requirements, a participation agreement, reimbursement requirements, compliance requirements, reporting and recordkeeping requirements, employment practices, financial management requirements, contracting procedures, and evaluation requirements.

(b) The MAP Participant shall not enter into any participation agreements with brand participants nor shall it implement any MAP brand activities for the applicable program year unless and until CCC has communicated in writing its approval of the proposed operational procedures to the MAP Participant.

(c) Participation agreements between MAP Participants and brand participants. Where CCC approves a MAP Participant's application to run a brand promotion program that will include brand participants, the MAP Participant shall enter into participation agreements with brand participants. These agreements must:

(1) Specify a time period for such brand promotion and require that all brand promotion expenditures be made within the MAP Participant's approved program year;

(2) Make no allowance for extension or renewal;

(3) Limit reimbursable expenditures to those made in countries and for activities approved in the brand participant's activity plan;

(4) Specify the percentage of promotion expenditures that will be reimbursed, reimbursement procedures, and documentation requirements;

(5) Include a written certification by the brand participant that it either owns the brand of the product it will promote or has exclusive rights to promote the brand in each of the countries in which promotion activities will occur;

(6) Require that all product labels, promotional material, and advertising will identify the origin of the U.S. agricultural commodity as “American”, “Product of the United States of America”, “Product of the U.S.”, “Product of the U.S.A.”, “Product of America”, “Grown in the United States of America”, “Grown in the U.S.”, “Grown in the U.S.A.”, “Grown in America”, “Made in the United States of America,” “Made in the U.S.”, “Made in the U.S.A.”, “Made in America”, or product of, grown in or made in any state or territory of the United States of America spelled out in its entirety, or other U.S. regional designation if approved in advance by CCC; that such origin identification will be conspicuously displayed in a manner easily observed as identifying the origin of the product; and that such origin identification will conform, to the extent possible, to the U.S. standard of1/6 inch (.42 centimeters) in height based on the lower case letter “o”. The use of the above terms as a descriptor or in the name of the product (e.g., Texas style chili, Bob's American Pizza) does not satisfy the product origin requirement. Phrases “product of”, “grown in” or “made in” are encouraged, but not required. A MAP Participant may request an exemption from this requirement on a case-by-case basis. All such requests shall be in writing and include justification satisfactory to CCC that this labeling requirement would hinder a MAP Participant's promotional efforts. CCC will determine, on a case by case basis, whether sufficient justification exists to grant an exemption from the labeling requirement. In addition, CCC may temporarily waive this requirement where CCC has determined that such labeling will likely harm sales rather than help them. Such determinations will be announced to MAP Participants via a MAP notice issued on FAS' Web site;

(7) Include a written certification by the brand participant that it is either a small-sized entity as defined in this subpart or a U.S. agricultural cooperative;

(8) Require that the brand participant submit to the MAP Participant a statement certifying that any Federal funds received will supplement, but not supplant, any private or third party funds or other contributions to program activities; and

(9) Require the brand participant to maintain all original records and documents relating to program activities for 5 calendar years following the end of the applicable program year and make such records and documents available upon request to authorized officials of the U.S. Government.

(d) MAP Participants may not provide assistance to a single entity including a entity reincorporated or re-organized under the same or different name if the reincorporated or re-organized entity is substantially similar to the pre-existing entity, for brand promotion in a single country for more than 5 years. Such 5 years do not need to be consecutive. Such 5-year period shall not begin prior to the 1994 program year or the brand participant's first program year, whichever is later. In limited circumstances, CCC may waive the 5 year limitation if CCC determines that further assistance is in the best interests of the MAP. CCC shall, at its discretion, decide whether a reincorporated or re-organized entity is substantially similar to the pre-existing entity for purposes of applying this 5-year rule. Brand participants' participation in certain international trade shows in foreign countries will not be considered when determining such brand participants' time in country for purposes of the 5 year graduation requirement. Such shows must meet two requirements: They are food or agricultural shows, with no less than 30% of exhibitors selling food or agricultural products, and they are international shows, meaning they target buyers, distributors and the like from more than one foreign country and no less than 15% of each show's visitors are from countries other than the host country. CCC will compile a list of international trade shows that CCC exempts from the graduation requirement and such list will be announced to MAP Participants via a MAP notice issued on FAS' Web site.