##### § 1485.19 Advances. #####

(a) Policy. In general, CCC operates the MAP on a reimbursable basis.

(b) *Exception.* A MAP Participant for generic promotion activities may request an advance of MAP funds from CCC, provided the MAP Participant meets the criteria for advance payments in 2 CFR part 200. CCC will not approve any request for an advance submitted later than 3 months after the end of a MAP Participant's program year. At any given time, total payments advanced shall not exceed 40 percent of a MAP Participant's approved generic activity budget for the program year. CCC will not advance funds to a MAP Participant for brand promotion activities. When approving a request for an advance, CCC may require the MAP Participant to carry adequate fidelity bond coverage when the absence of such coverage is considered to create an unacceptable risk to the interests of the MAP. Whether an “unacceptable risk” exists in a particular situation will depend on a number of factors, such as, for example, the Participant's history of performance in MAP; the Participant's perceived financial stability and resources; and any other factors presented in the particular situation that may reflect on the Participant's responsibility or the riskiness of its activities.

(c) Interest. A MAP Participant shall deposit and maintain in an insured bank account in the United States all funds advanced by CCC. The account shall be interest-bearing, unless the exceptions in 2 CFR part 200. Interest earned by the MAP Participant on funds advanced by CCC is not program income. The MAP Participant shall remit any interest earned on the advanced funds to the appropriate entity as set forth in the applicable parts of this title.

(d) Refunds due CCC. A MAP Participant shall fully expend all advances on approved generic promotion activities within 90 calendar days after the date of disbursement by CCC. By the end of the 90 calendar days, the MAP Participant must submit reimbursement claims to offset the advance and submit a check made payable to CCC for any unexpended balance. The MAP Participant shall make such payment in U.S. dollars, unless otherwise approved in advance by CCC.

[60 FR 6363, Feb. 1, 1995, as amended at 77 FR 41885, July 17, 2012; 79 FR 75997, Dec. 19, 2014]