cfr/title-46-Shipping/chapter-I-Coast-Guard-Department-Homeland-Security/subchapter-F-Marine-Engineering/part-64-Marine-Portable-Tanks-Cargo-Handling-Systems/subpart-A-General/section-64.2.md, before:

##### § 64.2 Incorporation by reference. #####

Link to an amendment published at 89 FR 50199, June 12, 2024.

(a) Certain material is incorporated by reference into this part with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a). To enforce any edition other than the one listed in paragraph (b) of this section, the Coast Guard must publish notice of the change in the Federal Register and make the material available to the public. All approved material is on file at the Coast Guard Headquarters. Contact Commandant (CG-DCO-D), Attn: Deputy for Operations Policy and Capabilities, U.S. Coast Guard Stop 7318, 2703 Martin Luther King Jr. Avenue SE., Washington, DC 20593-7318. The material is also available from the source indicated in paragraph (b) of this section or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal\_register/code\_of\_federal\_regulations/ibr\_locations.html.*

(b) The material approved for incorporation by reference in this part, and the sections affected, are:

American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) InternationalThree Park Avenue, New York, NY 10016-5990.ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code, Section VIII, Division 1, Pressure Vessels, 1989, with Addenda issued December 31, 1989 (“ASME Code”)64.5, 64.7, 64.11, 64.13, 64.21, 64.25, 64.31[CGD 84-043, 55 FR 37409, Sept. 11, 1990; 55 FR 47477, Nov. 14, 1990, as amended by CGD 96-041, 61 FR 50728, Sept. 27, 1996; CGD 97-057, 62 FR 51044, Sept. 30, 1997; USCG-1999-6216, 64 FR 53225, Oct. 1, 1999; USCG-2012-0832, 77 FR 59778, Oct. 1, 2012; USCG-2013-0671, 78 FR 60149, Sept. 30, 2013]

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2024-09-10 issue
Title: 14: Aeronautics and Space - Sections changed: 1
Title: 19: Customs Duties - Sections changed: 1
Title: 10: Energy - Sections changed: 1
Title: 21: Food and Drugs - Sections changed: 6
Title: 33: Navigation and Navigable Waters - Sections changed: 1
Title: 40: Protection of Environment - Sections changed: 4
Title: 46: Shipping - Sections changed: 396
Title: 50: Wildlife and Fisheries - Sections changed: 2

cfr/title-46-Shipping/chapter-I-Coast-Guard-Department-Homeland-Security/subchapter-F-Marine-Engineering/part-64-Marine-Portable-Tanks-Cargo-Handling-Systems/subpart-A-General/section-64.2.md, after:

##### § 64.2 Incorporation by reference. #####

Certain material is incorporated by reference into this part with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. To enforce any edition other than that specified in this section, the Coast Guard must publish a document in the Federal Register and the material must be available to the public. All approved incorporation by reference (IBR) material is available for inspection at the U.S. Coast Guard and the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). Contact U.S. Coast Guard Headquarters at: Commandant (CG-ENG), Attn: Office of Design and Engineering Standards, U.S. Coast Guard Stop 7509, 2703 Martin Luther King Jr. Avenue SE, Washington, DC 20593-7509; phone (202) 372-1375; email *typeapproval@uscg.mil*. For information on the availability of this material at NARA, visit *www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations* or email *fr.inspection@nara.gov*. The material may be obtained from: *American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME),* Two Park Avenue, New York, NY 10016-5990; 800-843-2763; *CustomerCare@asme.org*; *www.asme.org*.

(a) ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code, Section VIII, Division 1, Pressure Vessels, 1989, with Addenda issued December 31, 1989 (“Section VIII of the ASME BPVC”); IBR approved for §§ 64.5(d); 64.11(a); 64.13; 64.21; 64.25(b); 64.31.

(b) [Reserved]

[USCG-2020-0634, 89 FR 50199, June 12, 2024]
