##### ยง 160.043-5 Inspections and tests. #####

(a) *General.* Jackknives are not ordinarily subjected to regularly scheduled factory inspections, but the Commander of the Coast Guard District in which they are manufactured may detail an inspector at any time to places where jackknives are manufactured to check materials and construction methods, and to conduct such tests as may be required to satisfy himself that jackknives are being manufactured in compliance with the requirements of this specification and the manufacturer's plans and specifications as approved by the Commandant. The manufacturer shall admit the inspector to his plant and shall provide a suitable place and the necessary apparatus for use of the inspector in conducting tests at the place of manufacture.

(b) *Hardness test.* Hardness of the blade, can opener, and spring metal shall be determined in accordance with the Rockwell method as described in Federal Specification QQ-M-151. Hardness impressions shall be made at locations representing the cutting edges and surfaces subject to wear, and they shall fall within the ranges set forth in ยง 160.043-3(a).

(c) *Bending and drop tests.* With all of the blade of the knife except the tang clamped in vertical jaws so that the handle is in a horizontal position, a downward load of 15 pounds shall be suspended from the lanyard and allowed to hang for a period of 5 minutes. The knife shall then be turned over, and the test repeated with the can opener in the jaws. The knife shall then be dropped on its side from a height of 8 feet onto a concrete floor. Both the blade and the can opener shall open and close properly, and the knife shall show no other evidence of failure at the conclusion of these tests.

(d) *Cutting test.* The knife shall be used to cut various nonmetallic objects, including at least 10 shavings from a strip of oak or other hardwood, and to open various rectangular and circular cans, and shall show no noticeable loss in cutting ability.