##### § 111.13 Written examination for individual license. #####

Link to an amendment published at 82 FR 29718, June 30, 2017.

(a) *Scope of examination.* The written examination for an individual broker's license will be designed to determine the individual's knowledge of customs and related laws, regulations and procedures, bookkeeping, accounting, and all other appropriate matters necessary to render valuable service to importers and exporters. The examination will be prepared and graded at Customs and Border Protection (CBP) Headquarters, Washington, DC.

(b) *Basic requirements, date, and place of examination.* In order to be eligible to take the written examination, an individual must on the date of examination be a citizen of the United States who has attained the age of 18 years and who is not an officer or employee of the United States Government. Written examinations will be given on the first Monday in April and October unless the regularly scheduled examination date conflicts with a national holiday, religious observance, or other foreseeable event and the agency publishes in the Federal Register an appropriate notice of a change in the examination date. An individual who intends to take the written examination must so advise the port director in writing at least 30 calendar days prior to the scheduled examination date and must remit the $200 examination fee prescribed in § 111.96(a) at that time. The port director will give notice of the exact time and place for the examination.

(c) *Special examination.* If a partnership, association, or corporation loses the required member or officer having an individual broker's license (see §§ 111.11(b) and (c)(2)) and its license would be revoked by operation of law under the provisions of 19 U.S.C. 1641(b)(5) and § 111.45(a) before the next scheduled written examination, CBP may authorize a special written examination for a prospective applicant for an individual license who would serve as the required licensed member or officer. CBP may also authorize a special written examination for an individual for purposes of continuing the business of a sole proprietorship broker. A special written examination for an individual may also be authorized by CBP if a brokerage firm loses the individual broker who was exercising responsible supervision and control over an office in another district (see § 111.19(d)) and the permit for that additional district would be revoked by operation of law under the provisions of 19 U.S.C. 1641(c)(3) and § 111.45(b) before the next scheduled written examination. A request for a special written examination must be submitted to the port director in writing and must describe the circumstances giving rise to the need for the examination. If the request is granted, the port director will notify the prospective examinee of the exact time and place for the examination. If the individual attains a passing grade on the special written examination, the application for the license may be submitted in accordance with § 111.12. The examinee will be responsible for all additional costs incurred by CBP in preparing and administering the special examination that exceed the $200 examination fee prescribed in § 111.96(a), and those additional costs must be reimbursed to CBP before the examination is given.

(d) *Failure to appear for examination.* If a prospective examinee advises the port director at least 2 working days prior to the date of a regularly scheduled written examination that he will not appear for the examination, the port director will refund the $200 examination fee referred to in paragraph (b) of this section. No refund of the examination fee or additional reimbursed costs will be made in the case of a special written examination provided for under paragraph (c) of this section.

(e) *Notice of examination result.* CBP will provide to each examinee written notice of the result of the examination taken under this section. A failure of an examinee to attain a passing grade on the examination will preclude the submission of an application under § 111.12 but will not preclude the examinee from taking an examination again at a later date in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.

(f) *Appeal of failing grade on examination.* If an examinee fails to attain a passing grade on the examination taken under this section, the examinee may challenge that result by filing a written appeal with Trade Policy and Programs, Office of International Trade, U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Washington, DC 20005 within 60 calendar days after the date of the written notice provided for in paragraph (e) of this section. CBP will provide to the examinee written notice of the decision on the appeal. If the CBP decision on the appeal affirms the result of the examination, the examinee may request review of the decision on the appeal by writing to the Assistant Commissioner, Office of International Trade, U.S. Customs and Border Protection, within 60 calendar days after the date of the notice on that decision.

[T.D. 00-17, 65 FR 13891, Mar. 15, 2000, as amended by T.D. 03-23, 68 FR 31977, May 29, 2003, CBP Dec. 09-38, 74 FR 52401, Oct. 13, 2009; CBP Dec. 10-29, 75 FR 52458, Aug. 26, 2010]