##### ยง 204.2 Organization. #####

(a) The Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration (Packers and Stockyards Programs) consists of a headquarters office located in the South Building of the U.S. Department of Agriculture in Washington, DC, and 12 regional offices. The Washington headquarters office is organized to include the Office of the Administrator and two Divisions, the Packer and Poultry Division and the Livestock Marketing Division.

(b) *Office of the Administrator.* This office has overall responsibility for administering the provisions of the Packers and Stockyards Act, 1921, as amended and supplemented (7 U.S.C. 181 *et seq.*), for enforcement of the Truth-in-Lending Act (15 U.S.C. 1601-1665) with respect to any activities subject to the Packers and Stockyards Act and for executing assigned civil defense and defense mobilization activities. These responsibilities include formulation of current and long-range programs relating to assigned functions; execution of the policies and programs administered by the Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration (Packers and Stockyards Programs); review and evaluation of program operations for uniform, effective, and efficient administration of the Packers and Stockyards Act; and maintenance of relations and communications with producer and industry groups.

(1) *Administrator.* The Secretary of Agriculture has delegated responsibility for administration of the Packers and Stockyards Act to the Administrator who is responsible for the general direction and supervision of programs and activities assigned to the Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration (Packers and Stockyards Programs) except such activities as are reserved to the Judicial Officer (32 FR 7468). The Administrator reports to the Assistant Secretary for Marketing and Inspection Services.

(2) *Deputy Administrator.* The Deputy Administrator assists the Administrator in the overall responsibility for the general direction and supervision of programs and activities assigned to the Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration (Packers and Stockyards Programs).

(3) *Assistant to the Administrator.* The Assistant to the Administrator participates with the Administrator and Deputy Administrator in the development and analysis of policies and programs, and directs the management support services and related activities of the Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration (Packers and Stockyards Programs).

(4) *Director, Industry Analysis Staff.* The Director of the Industry Analysis Staff participates with the Administrator and Deputy Administrator in the development and analysis of policies and programs and directs economic studies of structure and performance of the livestock, meat, and poultry marketing, processing, and wholesaling industries. The results of these studies are used to provide economic advice to the Administrator in developing overall policy on antitrust matters and effects of practices or impediments in the marketing system. The Director works closely with the Directors of the Packer and Poultry and the Livestock Marketing Divisions in connection with investigations to provide economic advice and expert testimony in trials and administrative hearings. The Director also coordinates activities and works closely with the Federal Trade Commission and Justice Department in studying the effects of mergers and antitrust matters in the livestock, meat packing and poultry industries.

(c) *Packer and Poultry Division.* This Division carries out the enforcement of the provisions of the Packers and Stockyards Act relating to packers and live poultry dealers and handlers. The responsibilities and functions include: Determination of applicability of the provisions of the Act to individual packer and poultry operations; surveillance of these operations; investigation of complaints; initiation of formal proceedings, when warranted, to correct illegal practices; and maintenance of working relationships with the meat packer and poultry industries. These responsibilities and functions are accomplished with programs and activities directed through the Livestock Procurement Branch, Meat Merchandising Branch, and Poultry Branch. The Division Director participates with the Administrator and Deputy Administrator in the development and evaluation of policies and programs to fulfill the Agency's responsibilities and functions. The Director implements and directs the policies and programs pertaining to the Packer and Poultry Division through the three branches.

(d) *Livestock Marketing Division.* This Division enforces those provisions of the Packers and Stockyards Act relating to stockyard owners, market agencies, and dealers. The responsibilities and functions include: determination of the applicability of the jurisdiction, bonding, financial and trade practice provisions of the Act to individual operations; supervision of the installation, maintenance, and testing of scales; surveillance and investigations of stockyards, market agencies, and dealers; initiation of formal proceedings, when warranted, to correct illegal practices; and maintenance of working relationships with producer and industry groups. These responsibilities and functions are accomplished with programs and activities directed through the Financial Protection Branch, Marketing Practices Branch, and Scales and Weighing Branch. The Division Director participates with the Administrator and Deputy Administrator in the development and evaluation of policies and programs to fulfill the Agency's responsibilities and functions. The Director implements and directs the policies and programs pertaining to the Livestock Marketing Division through the three branches.

(e) *Field Services.* (1) The field services of the Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration (Packers and Stockyards Programs) is divided into 12 regional offices. These offices are responsible for supervision of operations of stockyard companies, market agencies, dealers, packers and live poultry dealers and handlers to assure compliance with the Act. They formulate recommendations relating to the enforcement of the Act; receive and investigate complaints, including reparation complaints; audit books, records, and reports of persons subject to the Act; conduct investigations to determine the existence of and develop evidence of unfair, deceptive, and discriminatory trade practices; prepare investigative reports and recommend corrective action; assist in the prosecution of cases; review applications for registration and rate changes for accuracy and compliance; and maintain relationships with producers, the trade, States and other groups interested in the welfare of the livestock, meat packing, and poultry industries concerning enforcement of the Act.

(2) The addresses and the States covered by these offices, which are under regional supervisors, are as follows:

Atlanta - Room 338, 1720 Peachtree Street, NW., Atlanta, Georgia 30309 (Alabama, Florida, Georgia, South Carolina)Bedford - Turnpike Road, Box 101E, Bedford, Virginia 25423 (District of Columbia, Delaware, Maryland, North Carolina, Virginia, West Virginia)Denver - 208 Livestock Exchange Building, Denver, Colorado 80216 (Colorado, Montana, New Mexico, Utah, Wyoming)Fort Worth - Room 8A36, Federal Building, 819 Taylor Street, Fort Worth, Texas 76102 (Oklahoma, Texas)Indianapolis - Room 434 Federal Building and U.S. Courthouse, 46 E. Ohio Street, Indianapolis, Indiana 46204 (Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Michigan, Ohio)Kansas City - 828 Livestock Exchange Building, Kansas City, Missouri 64102 (Kansas, Missouri)Lawndale - 15000 Aviation Boulevard, Room 2W6, P.O. Box 6102, Lawndale, California 90261 (Arizona, California, Hawaii, Nevada)Memphis - Room 459, Federal Building, 167 Main Street, Memphis, Tennessee 38103 (Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Tennessee)North Brunswick - 825 Georges Road, Room 303, North Brunswick, New Jersey 08902 (Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Vermont)Omaha - 909 Livestock Exchange Building, Omaha, Nebraska 68107 (Iowa, Nebraska)Portland - 9370 S.W. Greenburg Road, Suite E, Portland, Oregon 97223 (Alaska, Idaho, Oregon, Washington)South St. Paul - 208 Post Office Building, Box 8, South St. Paul, Minnesota 55075 (Minnesota, North Dakota, South Dakota, Wisconsin)