##### ยง 1779.47 Economic feasibility requirements. #####

All projects financed under the provisions of this section must be based on taxes, assessments, revenues, fees, or other sources of revenues in an amount sufficient to provide for facility operation and maintenance, a reasonable reserve, and debt payment. The lender is responsible for determining the credit quality and economic feasibility of the proposed loan and must address all elements of the credit quality in a written financial feasibility analysis which includes adequacy of equity, cash flow, security, history, and management capabilities. Financial feasibility reports must take into consideration any interest rate adjustment which may be instituted under the terms of the note. The lender's financial credit analysis may also serve as the feasibility analysis when sufficient evidence is included to determine economic feasibility as well as financial viability. The borrower's consulting engineer may complete the financial feasibility analysis for WW systems. If the facility is used by businesses and the success or failure of the facility is dependent on individual businesses, then the economic viability of those businesses must be assessed.

(a) *Exceptions.* The Agency loan approval official may exempt the lender from the requirement for an independent financial feasibility report (when requested by the borrower and the lender) provided the approval official determines that the financial feasibility analysis prepared by the borrower fairly represents the financial feasibility of the facility and the financial feasibility analysis contains an accurate projection of the usage, revenues, and expenses of the facility.

(b) *Insufficient information.* When the lender or Agency has insufficient information to determine the borrower's repayment ability, an independent feasibility analysis is required.