cfr/title-14-Aeronautics-Space/chapter-I-Federal-Aviation-Administration-Department-Transportation/subchapter-C-Aircraft/part-26-Continued-Airworthiness-Safety-Improvements-Transport-Category-Airplanes/subpart-B-Enhanced-Airworthiness-Program-Airplane-Systems/section-26.11.md, before:

##### § 26.11 Electrical wiring interconnection systems (EWIS) maintenance program. #####

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (g) of this section, this section applies to transport category, turbine-powered airplanes with a type certificate issued after January 1, 1958, that, as a result of the original certification, or later increase in capacity, have -

(1) A maximum type-certificated passenger capacity of 30 or more or

(2) A maximum payload capacity of 7,500 pounds or more.

(b) Holders of, and applicants for, type certificates, as identified in paragraph (d) of this section must develop Instructions for Continued Airworthiness (ICA) for the representative airplane's EWIS in accordance with part 25, Appendix H paragraphs H25.5(a)(1) and (b) of this subchapter in effect on December 10, 2007 for each affected type design, and submit those ICA for review and approval by the FAA Oversight Office. For purposes of this section, the “representative airplane” is the configuration of each model series airplane that incorporates all variations of EWIS used in production on that series airplane, and all TC-holder-designed modifications mandated by airworthiness directive as of the effective date of this rule. Each person specified in paragraph (d) of this section must also review any fuel tank system ICA developed by that person to comply with SFAR 88 to ensure compatibility with the EWIS ICA, including minimizing redundant requirements.

(c) Applicants for amendments to type certificates and supplemental type certificates, as identified in paragraph (d) of this section, must:

(1) Evaluate whether the design change for which approval is sought necessitates a revision to the ICA required by paragraph (b) of this section to comply with the requirements of Appendix H, paragraphs H25.5(a)(1) and (b). If so, the applicant must develop and submit the necessary revisions for review and approval by the FAA Oversight Office.

(2) Ensure that any revised EWIS ICA remain compatible with any fuel tank system ICA previously developed to comply with SFAR 88 and any redundant requirements between them are minimized.

(d) The following persons must comply with the requirements of paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, as applicable, before the dates specified.

(1) Holders of type certificates (TC): December 10, 2009.

(2) Applicants for TCs, and amendments to TCs (including service bulletins describing design changes), if the date of application was before December 10, 2007 and the certificate was issued on or after December 10, 2007: December 10, 2009 or the date the certificate is issued, whichever occurs later.

(3) Unless compliance with § 25.1729 of this subchapter is required or elected, applicants for amendments to TCs, if the application was filed on or after December 10, 2007: December 10, 2009, or the date of approval of the certificate, whichever occurs later.

(4) Applicants for supplemental type certificates (STC), including changes to existing STCs, if the date of application was before December 10, 2007 and the certificate was issued on or after December 10, 2007: June 7, 2010, or the date of approval of the certificate, whichever occurs later.

(5) Unless compliance with § 25.1729 of this subchapter is required or elected, applicants for STCs, including changes to existing STCs, if the application was filed on or after December 10, 2007, June 7, 2010, or the date of approval of the certificate, whichever occurs later.

(e) Each person identified in paragraphs (d)(1), (d)(2), and (d)(4) of this section must submit to the FAA Oversight Office for approval a compliance plan by March 10, 2008. The compliance plan must include the following information:

(1) A proposed project schedule, identifying all major milestones, for meeting the compliance dates specified in paragraph (d) of this section.

(2) A proposed means of compliance with this section, identifying all required submissions, including all compliance items as mandated in part 25, Appendix H paragraphs H25.5(a)(1) and (b) of this subchapter in effect on December 10, 2007, and all data to be developed to substantiate compliance.

(3) A proposal for submitting a draft of all compliance items required by paragraph (e)(2) of this section for review by the FAA Oversight Office not less than 60 days before the compliance time specified in paragraph (d) of this section.

(4) A proposal for how the approved ICA will be made available to affected persons.

(f) Each person specified in paragraph (e) must implement the compliance plan, or later approved revisions, as approved in compliance with paragraph (e) of this section.

(g) This section does not apply to the following airplane models:

(1) Lockheed L-188(2) Bombardier CL-44(3) Mitsubishi YS-11(4) British Aerospace BAC 1-11(5) Concorde(6) deHavilland D.H. 106 Comet 4C(7) VFW - Vereinigte Flugtechnische Werk VFW-614(8) Illyushin Aviation IL 96T(9) Bristol Aircraft Britannia 305(10) Handley Page Herald Type 300(11) Avions Marcel Dassault - Breguet Aviation Mercure 100C(12) Airbus Caravelle(13) Lockheed L-300[Amdt. 26-0, 72 FR 63409, Nov. 8, 2007; 72 FR 68618, Dec. 5, 2007]

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2018-03-06 issue
Title: 14: Aeronautics and Space - Sections changed: 183
Title: 12: Banks and Banking - Sections changed: 5
Title: 17: Commodity and Securities Exchanges - Sections changed: 1
Title: 18: Conservation of Power and Water Resources - Sections changed: 4
Title: 31: Money and Finance: Treasury - Sections changed: 86
Title: 39: Postal Service - Sections changed: 1
Title: 40: Protection of Environment - Sections changed: 10

cfr/title-14-Aeronautics-Space/chapter-I-Federal-Aviation-Administration-Department-Transportation/subchapter-C-Aircraft/part-26-Continued-Airworthiness-Safety-Improvements-Transport-Category-Airplanes/subpart-B-Enhanced-Airworthiness-Program-Airplane-Systems/section-26.11.md, after:

##### § 26.11 Electrical wiring interconnection systems (EWIS) maintenance program. #####

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (g) of this section, this section applies to transport category, turbine-powered airplanes with a type certificate issued after January 1, 1958, that, as a result of the original certification, or later increase in capacity, have—

(1) A maximum type-certificated passenger capacity of 30 or more or

(2) A maximum payload capacity of 7,500 pounds or more.

(b) Holders of, and applicants for, type certificates, as identified in paragraph (d) of this section must develop Instructions for Continued Airworthiness (ICA) for the representative airplane's EWIS in accordance with part 25, Appendix H paragraphs H25.5(a)(1) and (b) of this subchapter in effect on December 10, 2007 for each affected type design, and submit those ICA for review and approval by the responsible Aircraft Certification Service office. For purposes of this section, the “representative airplane” is the configuration of each model series airplane that incorporates all variations of EWIS used in production on that series airplane, and all TC-holder-designed modifications mandated by airworthiness directive as of the effective date of this rule. Each person specified in paragraph (d) of this section must also review any fuel tank system ICA developed by that person to comply with SFAR 88 to ensure compatibility with the EWIS ICA, including minimizing redundant requirements.

(c) Applicants for amendments to type certificates and supplemental type certificates, as identified in paragraph (d) of this section, must:

(1) Evaluate whether the design change for which approval is sought necessitates a revision to the ICA required by paragraph (b) of this section to comply with the requirements of Appendix H, paragraphs H25.5(a)(1) and (b). If so, the applicant must develop and submit the necessary revisions for review and approval by the responsible Aircraft Certification Service office.

(2) Ensure that any revised EWIS ICA remain compatible with any fuel tank system ICA previously developed to comply with SFAR 88 and any redundant requirements between them are minimized.

(d) The following persons must comply with the requirements of paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, as applicable, before the dates specified.

(1) Holders of type certificates (TC): December 10, 2009.

(2) Applicants for TCs, and amendments to TCs (including service bulletins describing design changes), if the date of application was before December 10, 2007 and the certificate was issued on or after December 10, 2007: December 10, 2009 or the date the certificate is issued, whichever occurs later.

(3) Unless compliance with § 25.1729 of this subchapter is required or elected, applicants for amendments to TCs, if the application was filed on or after December 10, 2007: December 10, 2009, or the date of approval of the certificate, whichever occurs later.

(4) Applicants for supplemental type certificates (STC), including changes to existing STCs, if the date of application was before December 10, 2007 and the certificate was issued on or after December 10, 2007: June 7, 2010, or the date of approval of the certificate, whichever occurs later.

(5) Unless compliance with § 25.1729 of this subchapter is required or elected, applicants for STCs, including changes to existing STCs, if the application was filed on or after December 10, 2007, June 7, 2010, or the date of approval of the certificate, whichever occurs later.

(e) Each person identified in paragraphs (d)(1), (d)(2), and (d)(4) of this section must submit to the responsible Aircraft Certification Service office for approval a compliance plan by March 10, 2008. The compliance plan must include the following information:

(1) A proposed project schedule, identifying all major milestones, for meeting the compliance dates specified in paragraph (d) of this section.

(2) A proposed means of compliance with this section, identifying all required submissions, including all compliance items as mandated in part 25, Appendix H paragraphs H25.5(a)(1) and (b) of this subchapter in effect on December 10, 2007, and all data to be developed to substantiate compliance.

(3) A proposal for submitting a draft of all compliance items required by paragraph (e)(2) of this section for review by the responsible Aircraft Certification Service office not less than 60 days before the compliance time specified in paragraph (d) of this section.

(4) A proposal for how the approved ICA will be made available to affected persons.

(f) Each person specified in paragraph (e) must implement the compliance plan, or later approved revisions, as approved in compliance with paragraph (e) of this section.

(g) This section does not apply to the following airplane models:

(1) Lockheed L-188(2) Bombardier CL-44(3) Mitsubishi YS-11(4) British Aerospace BAC 1-11(5) Concorde(6) deHavilland D.H. 106 Comet 4C(7) VFW—Vereinigte Flugtechnische Werk VFW-614(8) Illyushin Aviation IL 96T(9) Bristol Aircraft Britannia 305(10) Handley Page Herald Type 300(11) Avions Marcel Dassault—Breguet Aviation Mercure 100C(12) Airbus Caravelle(13) Lockheed L-300[Amdt. 26-0, 72 FR 63409, Nov. 8, 2007; 72 FR 68618, Dec. 5, 2007, as amended by Doc. No. FAA-2018-0119, Amdt. 26-7, 83 FR 9170, Mar. 5, 2018]
