##### ยง 1.806-4 Change of basis in computing reserves. #####

(a) *In general.* For purposes of subpart B, part I, subchapter L, chapter 1 of the Code, section 806(b) provides that if the basis for determining the amount of any item referred to in section 810(c) (relating to items taken into account) as of the close of the taxable year differs from the basis for such determination as of the beginning of the taxable year, then in determining taxable investment income the amount of the item as of the close of the taxable year shall be the amount computed on the old basis, and the amount of the item as of the beginning of the next taxable year shall be the amount computed on the new basis. For purposes of the preceding sentence, an election under section 818(c) shall not be treated as a change in basis for determining the amount of an item referred to in section 810(c). A change of basis in computing any of the items referred to in section 810(c) is not a change of accounting method requiring the consent of the Secretary or his delegate under section 446(e).

(b) *Illustration of change of basis in computing reserves.* The application of section 806(b) and paragraph (a) of this section may be illustrated by the following examples:

Example 1.Assume that the life insurance reserves of Y, a life insurance company, at the beginning of the taxable year 1959 are $100 and that during such taxable year a portion of the reserves is strengthened (by reason of a change in mortality or interest assumptions, or otherwise), so that at the end of the taxable year 1959 the reserves (computed on the new basis) are $130 but computed on the old basis would be $120. Assume further that at the close of the next taxable year, 1960, the reserves (computed on the new basis) are $142. Under the provisions of section 806(b) and paragraph (a) of this section, the mean of such reserves for the taxable year of the reserve strengthening, namely 1959, is $110 (the mean of $100, the balance at the beginning of the taxable year 1959, and $120, the balance at the end of the taxable year 1959 computed on the old basis). The mean of such reserves for the next taxable year, 1960, is $136 (the mean of $130, the balance at the beginning of the taxable year 1960 computed on the new basis, and $142, the balance at the end of the taxable year 1960 computed on the new basis).Example 2.The life insurance reserves of S, a life insurance company, computed with respect to contracts for which such reserves are determined on a recognized preliminary term basis amount to $50 on January 1, 1959, and $80 on December 31, 1959. For the taxable year 1959, S elects to revalue such reserves on a net level premium basis under section 818(c). Such reserves computed under section 818(c) amount to $60 on January 1, 1959, and $96 on December 31, 1959. Under the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section, the mean of such reserves for the taxable year 1959 is $78 (the mean of $60, the balance at the beginning of the taxable year 1959 computed under section 818(c), and $96, the balance at the end of the taxable year 1959 computed under section 818(c).[T.D. 6513, 25 FR 12669, Dec. 10, 1960]