##### § 5c.168(f)(8)-3 Requirements for lessor. #####

(a) *Qualified lessor.* In order for an agreement to be treated as a lease under section 168(f)(8), the party characterized in the agreement as the lessor must be a qualified lessor. The term “qualified lessor” means -

(1) A corporation which is neither an electing small business corporation under section 1371(b) nor a personal holding company under section 542(a), or

(2) A partnership all of whose partners are corporations described in subparagraph (1), or

(3) A grantor trust whose grantor and beneficiaries are all corporations described in paragraph (a)(1) or partnerships described in paragraph (a)(2).

(b) *Effect of disqualification of lessor.* If at any time during the term of the agreement the lessor ceases to be a qualified lessor, the agreement will lose its characterization as a lease under section 168(f)(8) as of the date of the event causing such disqualification. If any partner of a partnership described in paragraph (a)(2) ceases to be a corporation described in paragraph (a)(1), the partnership entity shall cease to be a qualified lessor. Similarly, if any beneficiary of a trust described in paragraph (a)(3) ceases to be a corporation described in paragraph (a)(1), the trust shall cease to be a qualified lessor. See § 5c.168(f)(8)-8 for the Federal income tax consequences of such a disqualification.

(c) *One tax owner per property.* Only one person may be a qualified lessor under section 168(f)(8) with respect to leased property. Thus, property that is subject to a lease under section 168(f)(8) may not be subleased under a lease for which a section 168(f)(8) election is made. In addition, if a lessor sells or assigns in a taxable transaction its interest in a section 168(f)(8) lease or in the underlying property, the lease shall cease to qualify under section 168(f)(8) and no other lease may be executed under section 168(f)(8) with respect to the property. The preceding sentence applies to a sale or assignment of its interest by a partner of a lessor that is a partnership described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section or by a beneficiary of a lessor that is a trust described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section. See § 5c.168(f)(8)-8 for the Federal income tax consequences where a lease ceases to qualify under section 168(f)(8). However, lease brokers, agents, etc., may, for example, prepare executory contracts with the lessee whereby the broker's assignee may execute a lease as lessor, and, if the requirements of section 168(f)(8) and §§ 5c.168(f)(8)-1 through 5c.168(f)(8)-11 are met, the lease will qualify under section 168(f)(8).

(d) *Examples.* The application of paragraph (c) may be illustrated by the following examples:

Example (1).X Corp. (as lessee) sells certain new equipment to Y Corp. (as lessor) and leases it back under a section 168(f)(8) lease. Within 3 months after the property was placed in service, Y assigns its interest in the lease to Z. Upon the transfer to Z, the lease will no longer qualify for treatment under section 168(f)(8). The property may not thereafter be the subject of a section 168(f)(8) lease.Example (2).X Corp., which wishes to acquire certain equipment for use in its business and to transfer ownership of the property for Federal income tax law purposes, purchases the equipment and enters into an executory contract with LB, a lease broker, under which X agrees to execute a section 168(f)(8) lease as lessee with a third party lessor. At a later date (but within the prescribed 3-month period), LB arranges for X and T Corp. (which wishes to secure Federal income tax law ownership) to execute a lease agreement in accordance with § 5c.168(f)(8)-2. The lease will qualify for treatment under section 168(f)(8).[T.D. 7791, 46 FR 51907, Oct. 23, 1981, as amended by T.D. 7795, 46 FR 56149, Nov. 13, 1981]