##### ยง 25.303 Closing procedure. #####

(a) *FMS loans held by DSAA.* (1) After the Treasury has processed Parts I and II of a prepayment application regarding an Eligible FMS Loan made by DSAA or an Eligible FMS Advance on account of an FMS Loan made by DSAA, as the case may be, DSAA will communicate with the Borrower's contact person identified in Part V of the prepayment application to establish a Closing Date mutually agreeable to the Borrower and DSAA. DSAA will inform the Borrower of the final amount of the Total Permitted Prepayment Amount, or the portion thereof which the Borrower has selected to prepay, as of the Closing Date established. The determination by DSAA of the final amount of the Total Permitted Prepayment Amount, or the portion thereof which the Borrower has selected to prepay, shall be conclusive.

(2) On the Closing Date, the Guaranty will be attached to the Private Loan Note or the Private Loan Portion Notes, as the case may be, the Private Loan shall be funded, and the Total Permitted Prepayment Amount, or the portion thereof which the Borrower has selected to prepay, will be prepaid.

(3) The attachment of the Guaranty to the Private Loan Note or the Private Loan Portion Notes, as the case may be, will take place at such location as may be designated by the mutual agreement of the Borrower and DSAA.

(4) Prior to 1:00 p.m. prevailing local time in New York, New York, on the Closing Date, immediately available funds in amounts sufficient to prepay the Total Permitted Prepayment Amount, or the portion thereof which the Borrower has selected to prepay, shall be transferred by electronic funds transfer to DSAA at the Treasury Department account at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. The funds transfer message must include the following credit information:

United States Treasury, New York, New York, 021030004, TREAS NYC/ (5037).For credit to the Defense Security Assistance Agency, The Pentagon, Washington, DC 20301-2800.This information must be *exactly* in this form (including spacing between words and numbers) to insure timely receipt by the DSAA. Checks, drafts, and other orders for payment will not be accepted.

(b) *FMS Loans held by the FFB.* (1) After the Treasury Department has processed Parts I and II of a prepayment application regarding an Eligible FMS Loan made by the FFB and guaranteed by DSAA or an Eligible FMS Advance on account of an FMS Loan made by the FFB and guaranteed by DSAA, as the case may be, the FFB will communicate with the Borrower's contact person identified in Part V of the prepayment application to establish a Closing Date mutually agreeable to the Borrower, the FFB, and DSAA. The FFB will inform the Borrower of the final amount of the Total Permitted Prepayment Amount, or the portion thereof which the Borrower has selected to prepay, as of the Closing Date established. The determination by the FFB of the final amount of the Total Permitted Prepayment Amount, or the portion thereof which the Borrower has selected to prepay, shall be conclusive.

(2) On the Closing Date, the Guaranty will be attached to the Private Loan Note or the Private Loan Portion Notes, as the case may be, the Private Loan will be funded, and the Total Permitted Prepayment Amount, or the portion thereof which the Borrower has selected to prepay, will be prepaid.

(3) The attachment of the Guaranty to the Private Loan Note or the Private Loan Portion Notes, as the case may be, will take place at such location as may be designated by the mutual agreement of the Borrower and DSAA.

(4) Prior to 1:00 p.m. prevailing local time in New York, New York, on the Closing Date, immediately available funds in amounts sufficient to prepay at par the Permitted Prepayment Amount, or the portion thereof which the Borrower has selected to prepay, shall be transferred by electronic funds transfer to the Treasury Department account at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. The funds transfer message must include the following credit information:

United States Treasury, New York, New York, 021030004, TREAS NYC/ (20180006).For credit to the Federal Financing Bank, Room 143, Liberty Center Building, 401 14th Street SW., Washington, DC 20227.This information must be *exactly* in this form (including spacing between words and numbers) to insure timely receipt by the FFB. Checks, drafts, and others for payment will not be accepted.

(c) *Changes in the closing date.* If a Borrower does not prepay the Total Permitted Prepayment Amount or the portion thereof which the Borrower has selected to prepay, on the mutually agreed upon Closing Date, the Borrower may prepay the Total Permitted Prepayment Amount, or the portion thereof which the Borrower has selected to prepay, on a new Closing Date, *provided* that the new Closing Date is mutually agreeable to all interested parties, and *provided, further,* that the Borrower prepays such amount in accordance with the approved prepayment application, adjusted for changes in accrued interest.