##### ยง 1610.6-6 Amendment. #####

(a) A plan component may be changed through amendment. An amendment may be initiated when the BLM determines monitoring and evaluation findings, new high quality information, new or revised policy, a proposed action, or other relevant changes in circumstances, such as changes in resource, environmental, ecological, social, or economic conditions, warrants a change to one or more of the plan components of the approved resource management plan. An amendment shall be made in conjunction with an environmental assessment of the proposed change, or an environmental impact statement, if necessary. When amending a resource management plan, the BLM shall provide for public involvement (see ยง 1610.2), interagency coordination, tribal consultation, consistency review (see ยง 1610.3), and protest (see ยง 1610.6-2). In all cases, the effect of the amendment on other plan components shall be evaluated. If the amendment is being considered in response to a specific proposal, the effects analysis required for the proposal and for the amendment may occur simultaneously.

(b) If the environmental assessment does not disclose significant impacts, the responsible official may make a finding of no significant impact and then make a recommendation on the amendment to the deciding official for approval. Upon approval, the BLM shall issue a public notice of the action taken on the amendment. If the amendment is approved, it may be implemented 30 days after such notice.

(c) If the BLM amends several resource management plans simultaneously, a single programmatic environmental impact statement or environmental assessment may be prepared to address all amendments.