##### § 192.14 Electronic information for outward cargo required in advance of departure. #####

(a) *General requirement.* Pursuant to section 343(a), Trade Act of 2002, as amended (19 U.S.C. 2071 note), for any commercial cargo that is to be transported out of the United States by vessel, aircraft, rail, or truck, unless exempted under paragraph (d) of this section, the United States Principal Party in Interest (USPPI), or its authorized agent, must electronically transmit for receipt by Customs and Border Protection (CBP), no later than the time period specified in paragraph (b) of this section, certain cargo information, as enumerated in paragraph (c) of this section. Specifically, to effect the advance electronic transmission of the required cargo information to CBP, the USPPI or its authorized agent must use a CBP-approved electronic data interchange system (currently, the Automated Export System (AES)).

(b) *Presentation of data* - (1) *Time for presenting data.* USPPIs or their authorized agents must electronically transmit and verify system acceptance of required cargo information for outbound cargo no later than the time period specified as follows (see paragraph (b)(3) of this section):

(i) For vessel cargo, the USPPI or its authorized agent must transmit and verify system acceptance of export vessel cargo information no later than 24 hours prior to departure from the U.S. port where the vessel cargo is to be laden;

(ii) For air cargo, including cargo being transported by Air Express Couriers, the USPPI or its authorized agent must transmit and verify system acceptance of export air cargo information no later than 2 hours prior to the scheduled departure time of the aircraft from the last U.S. port;

(iii) For truck cargo, including cargo departing by Express Consignment Courier, the USPPI or its authorized agent must transmit and verify system acceptance of export truck cargo information no later than 1 hour prior to the arrival of the truck at the border; and

(iv) For rail cargo, the USPPI or its authorized agent must transmit and verify system acceptance of export rail cargo information no later than two hours prior to the arrival of the train at the border.

(2) *Applicability of time frames.* The time periods in paragraph (b)(1) of this section for reporting required export cargo information to CBP for outward vessel, air, truck, or rail cargo only apply to shipments without an export license, that require full pre-departure reporting of shipment data, in order to comply with the advance cargo information filing requirements under section 343(a), as amended. Paragraph (e) of this section details dates for compliance with the time frames provided in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. Requirements placed on exports controlled by other Government agencies will remain in force unless changed by the agency having the regulatory authority to do so. The CBP will also continue to require 72-hour advance notice for used vehicle exports pursuant to § 192.2(c)(1) and (c)(2)(i) of this part. USPPIs or their authorized agents should refer to the relevant titles of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) for pre-filing requirements of other Government agencies. In particular, for the advance reporting requirements for exports of U.S. Munitions List items, see the U.S. Department of State's International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) (22 CFR parts 120 through 130).

(3) *System verification of data acceptance.* Once the USPPI or its authorized agent has transmitted the data required under paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section, and the CBP-approved electronic system has received and accepted this data, the system will generate and transmit to the USPPI or its authorized agent (whichever is the filer in AES) a confirmation number (this number is known as the Internal Transaction Number (ITN)), which verifies that the data has been accepted as transmitted for the outgoing shipment.

(c) *Information required* - (1) *Currently collected commodity data.* The export cargo information to be collected from USPPIs or their authorized agents for outbound cargo is already contained in the Bureau of Census electronic Shipper's Export Declaration (SED) that the USPPI or its authorized agent currently presents to CBP through the approved electronic system. The AES Commodity Module already captures the requisite export data, so no new data elements for export cargo are required under this section. The export cargo data elements that are required to be reported electronically through the approved system are also found in § 30.63 of the Bureau of Census Regulations (15 CFR 30.63).

(2) *Transportation data.* Reporting of the following transportation information is currently mandatory for AES participants under 15 CFR 30.63 for the vessel, air, truck, and rail modes (see also paragraph (c)(3) of this section):

(i) Method of transportation (the method of transportation is defined as that by which the goods are exported or shipped (vessel, air, rail, or truck));

(ii) Carrier identification (for vessel, rail and truck shipments, the unique carrier identifier is the 4-character Standard Carrier Alpha Code (SCAC); for aircraft, the carrier identifier is the 2- or 3-character International Air Transport Association (IATA) code);

(iii) Conveyance name (the conveyance name is the name of the carrier; for sea carriers, this is the name of the vessel; for others, the carrier name);

(iv) Country of ultimate destination (this is the country as known to the USPPI or its authorized agent at the time of exportation, where the cargo is to be consumed or further processed or manufactured; this country would be identified by the 2-character International Standards Organization (ISO) code for the country of ultimate destination);

(v) Estimated date of exportation (the USPPI or its authorized agent must report the date the cargo is scheduled to leave the United States for all modes of transportation; if the actual date is not known, the USPPI or its authorized agent must report the best estimate as to the time of departure); and

(vi) Port of exportation (the port where the outbound cargo departs from the United States is designated by its unique code, as set forth in Annex C, Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS); the USPPI or its authorized agent must report the port of exportation as known when the USPPI or its agent tenders the cargo to the outbound carrier; should the carrier export the cargo from a different port and the carrier so informs the USPPI or agent, the port of exportation must be corrected by the filer in AES.).

(3) *Proof of electronic filing; exemption from filing.* The USPPI, or its authorized agent, must furnish to the outbound carrier a proof of electronic filing citation (the ITN), low-risk exporter citation (currently, the Option 4 filing citation), or exemption statement, for annotation on the carrier's outward manifest, waybill, or other export documentation covering the cargo to be shipped. The proof of electronic filing citation, low-risk exporter citation, or exemption statement, will conform to the approved data formats found in the Bureau of Census Foreign Trade Statistics Regulations (FTSR) (15 CFR part 30) and FTSR Letter 168, Amendment 2 (this Letter may be obtained from the Census Bureau).

(4) *Carrier responsibility* - (i) *Loading of cargo.* The carrier may not load cargo without first receiving from the USPPI or its authorized agent either the related electronic filing citation as prescribed under paragraph (c)(3) of this section, or an appropriate exemption statement for the cargo as specified in paragraph (d) of this section.

(ii) *High-risk cargo.* For cargo that CBP has identified as potentially high-risk, the carrier, after being duly notified by CBP, will be responsible for delivering the cargo for inspection/examination. If the cargo identified as high risk has already departed, CBP may demand that the export carrier redeliver the cargo in accordance with the terms of its international carrier bond (see § 113.64(k)(2) of this chapter).

(5) *USPPI receipt of information believed to be accurate.* Where the USPPI or its authorized agent electronically presenting the cargo information required in paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section receives any of this information from another party, CBP will take into consideration how, in accordance with ordinary commercial practices, the USPPI or its authorized agent acquired this information, and whether and how the USPPI or authorized agent is able to verify this information. Where the USPPI or authorized agent is not reasonably able to verify any information received, CBP will permit this party to electronically present the information on the basis of what it reasonably believes to be true.

(d) *Exemptions from reporting; Census exemptions applicable.* The USPPI or authorized agent must furnish to the outbound carrier an appropriate exemption state-ment (low-risk exporter or other exemption) for any export shipment laden that is not subject to pre-departure electronic information filing under this section. The exemption statement will conform to the proper format approved by the Bureau of Census. Any exemptions from reporting requirements for export cargo are enumerated in §§ 30.35 through 30.40 of the Bureau of Census Regulations (15 CFR 30.35 through 30.40). These exemptions are equally applicable under this section.

[CBP Dec. 03-32, 68 FR 68176, Dec. 5, 2003, as amended by CBP Dec. 08-46, 73 FR 71785, Nov. 25, 2008; CBP Dec. 09-39, 74 FR 52677, Oct. 14, 2009; CBP Dec. 10-29, 75 FR 52452, Aug. 26, 2010]