##### ยง 48.604 Transition and protective clauses. #####

(a) A retired member who is participating in the Plan without inclusion of former option 4, which provided for restoration of retired pay when no eligible beneficiary remained in his election, may before September 1, 1969, elect to have that option included in his election. The election to include such option 4 becomes effective on the first day of the month following the month in which that election was made. The retired member must on or before the effective date agree to pay to the Treasury both the total additional amount to cover the option had it been effective when he retired, and the interest which would have accrued on the additional amount up to the effective date of the new option 4. No such additional amount (except interest) shall accrue for months after the first month for which the individual had no eligible beneficiary. However, if undue hardship or financial burden would result, payments may be made in from 2 to 12 monthly installments when the monthly amount involved is $25 or less, or in from 2 to 36 installments when the monthly amounts involved exceed $25. No amounts by which a member's retired pay was reduced may be refunded to, or credited on behalf of, the retired member by virtue of an application made by him under this section. A retired member who does not make the additional election provided under this section within the time limits will not be allowed to reduce an annuity or withdraw from participation in the Plan as provided by ยง 48.406.

(b) Members who have elected and are not yet retired will automatically participate under the provisions of ยง 48.201.

(c) Elections in effect on August 13, 1968, will remain under the cost tables applicable on the date of the member's retirement.

(d) Any member who has filed an election, modification, or revocation prior to August 13, 1968, may before September 1, 1969, submit a written application to the Secretary concerned requesting that such election, modification, or revocation remain under the time-of-election provisions of the law applicable on the date it was filed.