##### § 51.1002 U.S. No. 2. #####

“U.S. No. 2” consists of Persian limes which are fairly firm, which are not badly deformed, and not of excessively rough texture, which are free from decay, stylar end breakdown or other internal discoloration, broken skins which are not healed, bruises (except those incident to proper handling and packing), and hard or dry skins, and free from serious damage caused by freezing, dryness or mushy condition, sprayburn, exanthema (ammoniation), scars, thorn scratches, scale, sunburn, scab, blanching, yellow color, discoloration, buckskin, dirt or other foreign material, disease, insects or mechanical or other means.

(a) Each fruit in this grade shall have not less than an aggregate area of one-half of the surface of the fruit which shows good green color characteristic of the Persian lime: *Provided,* That lots of limes which fail to meet the U.S. No. 2 grade requirements only because of blanching shall be designated as “U.S. No. 2, Mixed Color”; *And provided further,* That lots of limes which fail to meet the U.S. No. 2 or U.S. No. 2 Mixed Color grade requirements only because of turning yellow or yellow color, caused by the ripening process, shall be designated as “U.S. No. 2, Turning”.

(b) The fruit shall have a juice content of not less than 42 percent, by volume.

(c) In order to allow for variations incident to proper grading and handling, not more than 10 percent, by count, of the fruit in any lot may fail to meet the color requirements. In addition, not more than 10 percent, by count, of the fruit in any lot may be below the remaining requirements of this grade, but not more than one-half of this amount, or 5 percent, shall be allowed for decay, stylar end breakdown, and broken skins which are not healed, including not more than one-half of 1 percent for decay at shipping point: *Provided,* That an additional tolerance of 21/2 percent, or a total of not more than 3 percent, shall be allowed for decay en route or at destination.