##### § 2806.51 Grant and lease rate adjustments. #####

(a) The BLM will adjust your acreage rent and MW capacity fee over the course of your authorization as described in these regulations. For new grants or leases, you may choose either the standard rate adjustment method (see § 2806.52(a)(5) and (b)(3) for grants; see § 2806.54(a)(4) or (c) for leases) or the scheduled rate adjustment method (see § 2806.52(d) for grants; see § 2806.54(d) for leases). Once you select a rate adjustment method, that method will be fixed until you renew your grant or lease (see § 2807.22).

(b) For new grants or leases, if you select the scheduled rate adjustment method you must notify the BLM of your decision in writing. Your decision must be received by the BLM before your grant or lease is issued. If you do not select the scheduled rate adjustment method, the standard rate adjustment method will apply.

(c) If you hold a right-of-way for solar or wind energy development that is in effect prior to July 1, 2024, you may either request that the BLM apply the annual rent and fee set forth in § 2806.52 or use the rate methodology applicable to your authorization immediately prior to this rule. If you wish to use the annual rent and fee set forth in § 2806.52, your request must be received by the BLM before July 1, 2026. The BLM will continue to apply the rate in effect immediately prior to this rule unless it receives your request to use the rate adjustments in this part. A request to change your rate methodology will include your agreement to a re-issuance of the grant or lease with updated Terms and Conditions found under this part, pursuant to § 2807.20(f).

[81 FR 92217, Dec. 19, 2016, as amended at 89 FR 35680, May 1, 2024]