##### § 484.205 Basis of payment. #####

(a) *Method of payment.* An HHA receives a national prospective 60-day episode payment of a predetermined rate for a home health service previously paid on a reasonable cost basis (except the osteoporosis drug defined in section 1861(kk) of the Act) as of August 5, 1997. The national 60-day episode payment is determined in accordance with § 484.215. The national prospective 60-day episode payment is subject to the following adjustments and additional payments:

(1) A low-utilization payment adjustment (LUPA) of a predetermined per-visit rate as specified in § 484.230.

(2) A partial episode payment (PEP) adjustment due to an intervening event defined as a beneficiary elected transfer or a discharge and return to the same HHA during the 60-day episode, that warrants a new 60-day episode payment during an existing 60-day episode, that initiates the start of a new 60-day episode payment and a new physician certification of the new plan of care. The PEP adjustment is determined in accordance with § 484.235.

(3) An outlier payment is determined in accordance with § 484.240.

(b) *Episode payment* The national, standardized prospective 60-day episode payment represents payment in full for all costs associated with furnishing home health services previously paid on a reasonable cost basis (except the osteoporosis drug listed in section 1861(m) of the Act as defined in section 1861(kk) of the Act) as of August 5, 1997 unless the national 60-day episode payment is subject to a low-utilization payment adjustment set forth in § 484.230, a partial episode payment adjustment set forth at § 484.235, or an additional outlier payment set forth in § 484.240. All payments under this system may be subject to a medical review adjustment reflecting beneficiary eligibility, medical necessity determinations, and HHRG assignment. DME provided as a home health service as defined in section 1861(m) of the Act continues to be paid the fee schedule amount. Separate payment is made for “furnishing NPWT using a disposable device,” as that term is defined in § 484.202, which is not included in the episode payment.

(1) *Split percentage payment for initial episodes.* The initial percentage payment for initial episodes is paid to an HHA at 60 percent of the case-mix and wage adjusted 60-day episode rate. The residual final payment for initial episodes is paid at 40 percent of the case-mix and wage adjusted 60-day episode rate. Split percentage payments are made in accordance with requirements at § 409.43(c) of this chapter.

(2) *Split percentage payment for subsequent episodes.* The initial percentage payment for subsequent episodes is paid to an HHA at 50 percent of the case-mix and wage adjusted 60-day episode rate. The residual final payment for subsequent episodes is paid at 50 percent of the case-mix and wage adjusted 60-day episode rate. Split percentage payments are made in accordance with requirements at § 409.43(c) of this chapter.

(c) *Low-utilization payment.* An HHA receives a national 60-day episode payment of a predetermined rate for home health services previously paid on a reasonable cost basis as of August 5, 1997, unless CMS determines at the end of the 60-day episode that the HHA furnished minimal services to a patient during the 60-day episode. A low- utilization payment adjustment is determined in accordance with § 484.230.

(d) *Partial episode payment adjustment.* (1) An HHA receives a national 60-day episode payment of a predetermined rate for home health services unless CMS determines an intervening event, defined as a beneficiary elected transfer or discharge with goals met or no expectation of return to home health and the beneficiary returned to home health during the 60-day episode, warrants a new 60-day episode for purposes of payment. A start of care OASIS assessment and physician certification of the new plan of care are required.

(2) The PEP adjustment will not apply in situations of transfers among HHAs of common ownership. Those situations will be considered services provided under arrangement on behalf of the originating HHA by the receiving HHA with the common ownership interest for the balance of the 60-day episode. The common ownership exception to the transfer PEP adjustment does not apply if the beneficiary moves to a different MSA or Non-MSA during the 60-day episode before the transfer to the receiving HHA. The transferring HHA in situations of common ownership not only serves as a billing agent, but must also exercise professional responsibility over the arranged-for services in order for services provided under arrangements to be paid.

(3) If the intervening event warrants a new 60-day episode payment and a new physician certification and a new plan of care, the initial HHA receives a partial episode payment adjustment reflecting the length of time the patient remained under its care. A partial episode payment adjustment is determined in accordance with § 484.235.

(e) *Outlier payment.* An HHA receives a national 60-day episode payment of a predetermined rate for a home health service, unless the imputed cost of the 60-day episode exceeds a threshold amount. The outlier payment is defined to be a proportion of the imputed costs beyond the threshold. An outlier payment is a payment in addition to the national 60-day episode payment. The total of all outlier payments is limited to no more than 2.5 percent of total outlays under the HHA PPS. An outlier payment is determined in accordance with § 484.240.

[65 FR 41212, July 3, 2000, as amended at 72 FR 49878, Aug. 29, 2007; 80 FR 68717, Nov. 5, 2015; 81 FR 76796, Nov. 3, 2016]