##### ยง 700.922 Shore patrol. #####

(a) When liberty is granted to any considerable number of persons, except in an area that can absorb them without danger of disturbance or disorder, the senior officer present shall cause to be established, temporarily or permanently, in charge of an officer, a sufficient patrol of officers, petty officers, and noncommissioned officers to maintain order and suppress any unseemly conduct on the part of any person on liberty. The senior patrol officer shall communicate with the chief of police or other local officials and make such arrangements as may be practicable to aid the patrol in carrying out its duties properly. Such duties may include providing assistance to military personnel in relations with civil courts and police, arranging for release of service personnel from civil authorities to the parent command, and providing other services that favorably influence discipline and morale.

(b) A patrol shall not be landed in any foreign port without first obtaining the consent of the proper local officials. Tact must be used in requesting permission; and, unless it is given willingly and cordially, the patrol shall not be landed. If consent cannot be obtained, the size of liberty parties shall be held to such limits as may be necessary to render disturbances unlikely.

(c) Officers and enlisted personnel on patrol duty in a foreign country normally should not be armed. In the United States, officers and men may be armed as prescribed by the senior officer present.

(d) No officer or enlisted person who is a member of the shore patrol or beach guard, or is assigned in support thereof, shall partake of or indulge in any form of intoxicating beverage or other form of intoxicant while on duty, on post, or at other times prescribed by the senior patrol officer. The senior patrol officer shall ensure that the provisions of this paragraph are strictly observed and shall report promptly in writing to the senior officer present all violations of these provisions that may come to his or her notice. All officers and enlisted personnel of the patrol shall report to the senior patrol officer all violations of the provisions of this paragraph on the part of those under them.