cfr/title-10-Energy/chapter-II-Department-Energy/subchapter-D-Energy-Conservation/part-429-Certification-Compliance-Enforcement-Consumer-Products-Commercial-Industrial-Equipment/subpart-B-Certification/section-429.42.md, before:

##### § 429.42 Commercial refrigerators, freezers, and refrigerator-freezers. #####

Link to an amendment published at 88 FR 66221, Sept. 26, 2023.

(a) *Determination of represented value.* Manufacturers must determine the represented value, which includes the certified rating, for each basic model of commercial refrigerator, freezer, or refrigerator-freezer either by testing, in conjunction with the applicable sampling provisions, or by applying an AEDM.

(1) *Units to be tested.* (i) If the represented value for a given basic model is determined through testing, the general requirements of § 429.11 are applicable; and

(ii) For each basic model selected for testing, a sample of sufficient size shall be randomly selected and tested to ensure that—

(A) Any represented value of energy consumption or other measure of energy use of a basic model for which consumers would favor lower values shall be greater than or equal to the higher of:

(*1*) The mean of the sample, where:

![](/graphics/er31de13.157.gif)And *x* is the sample mean; n is the number of samples; and xi is the ith sample; or,

(*2*) The upper 95 percent confidence limit (UCL) of the true mean divided by 1.10, where:

![](/graphics/er31de13.158.gif)And *x* is the sample mean; s is the sample standard deviation; n is the number of samples; and t0.95 is the t statistic for a 95% one-tailed confidence interval with n-1 degrees of freedom (from Appendix A to subpart B of part 429); And,

(B) Any represented value of the energy efficiency or other measure of energy consumption of a basic model for which consumers would favor higher values shall be less than or equal to the lower of:

(*1*) The mean of the sample, where:

![](/graphics/er31de13.159.gif)And, *x* is the sample mean; n is the number of samples; and xi is the ith sample; or,

(*2*) The lower 95 percent confidence limit (LCL) of the true mean divided by 0.90, where:

![](/graphics/er31de13.160.gif)And *x* is the sample mean; s is the sample standard deviation; n is the number of samples; and t0.95 is the t statistic for a 95% one-tailed confidence interval with n-1 degrees of freedom (from Appendix A to subpart B of part 429).

(2) *Alternative efficiency determination methods.* In lieu of testing, a represented value of efficiency or consumption for a basic model of commercial refrigerator, freezer or refrigerator-freezer must be determined through the application of an AEDM pursuant to the requirements of § 429.70 and the provisions of this section, where:

(i) Any represented value of energy consumption or other measure of energy use of a basic model for which consumers would favor lower values shall be greater than or equal to the output of the AEDM and less than or equal to the Federal standard for that basic model; and

(ii) Any represented value of energy efficiency or other measure of energy consumption of a basic model for which consumers would favor higher values shall be less than or equal to the output of the AEDM and greater than or equal to the Federal standard for that basic model.

(b) *Certification reports.* (1) The requirements of § 429.12 are applicable to commercial refrigerators, freezers, and refrigerator-freezers; and

(2) Pursuant to § 429.12(b)(13), a certification report must include the following public, equipment-specific information:

(i) The daily energy consumption in kilowatt hours per day (kWh/day);

(ii) The rating temperature (e.g. lowest product application temperature, if applicable) in degrees Fahrenheit ( °F); and

(iii) The chilled or frozen compartment volume in cubic feet (ft3), the adjusted volume in cubic feet (ft3), or the total display area (TDA) in feet squared (ft2) (as appropriate for the equipment class).

(3) Pursuant to § 429.12(b)(13), a certification report must include the following additional, equipment-specific information:

(i) Whether the basic model is engineered-to-order; and

(ii) For any basic model rated with an AEDM, whether the manufacturer elects the witness test option for verification testing. (See § 429.70(c)(5)(iii) for options). However, the manufacturer may not select more than 10% of AEDM-rated basic models.

(4) Pursuant to § 429.12(b)(13), a certification report must include supplemental information submitted in PDF format. The equipment-specific, supplemental information must include any additional testing and testing set up instructions (*e.g.,* charging instructions) for the basic model; identification of all special features that were included in rating the basic model; and all other information (*e.g.,* any specific settings or controls) necessary to operate the basic model under the required conditions specified by the relevant test procedure. A manufacturer may also include with a certification report other supplementary items in PDF format (*e.g.,* manuals) for DOE to consider when performing testing under subpart C of this part.

[76 FR 12451, Mar. 7, 2011; 76 FR 24775, May 2, 2011, as amended at 76 FR 38292, June 30, 2011; 78 FR 79593, Dec. 31, 2013; 79 FR 22307, Apr. 21, 2014; 79 FR 25501, May 5, 2014; 80 FR 151, Jan. 5, 2015]

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2023-10-26 issue
Title: 14: Aeronautics and Space - Sections changed: 1
Title: 7: Agriculture - Sections changed: 1
Title: 17: Commodity and Securities Exchanges - Sections changed: 12
Title: 10: Energy - Sections changed: 13
Title: 37: Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights - Sections changed: 2
Title: 40: Protection of Environment - Sections changed: 2
Title: 47: Telecommunication - Sections changed: 3
Title: 50: Wildlife and Fisheries - Sections changed: 6

cfr/title-10-Energy/chapter-II-Department-Energy/subchapter-D-Energy-Conservation/part-429-Certification-Compliance-Enforcement-Consumer-Products-Commercial-Industrial-Equipment/subpart-B-Certification/section-429.42.md, after:

##### § 429.42 Commercial refrigerators, freezers, and refrigerator-freezers. #####

(a) *Determination of represented value.* Manufacturers must determine the represented value, which includes the certified rating, for each basic model of commercial refrigerator, freezer, or refrigerator-freezer either by testing, in conjunction with the applicable sampling provisions, or by applying an AEDM.

(1) *Units to be tested.* (i) If the represented value for a given basic model is determined through testing, the general requirements of § 429.11 are applicable; and

(ii) For each basic model selected for testing, a sample of sufficient size shall be randomly selected and tested to ensure that—

(A) Any represented value of energy consumption or other measure of energy use of a basic model for which consumers would favor lower values shall be greater than or equal to the higher of:

(*1*) The mean of the sample, where:

![](/graphics/er31de13.157.gif)And *x* is the sample mean; n is the number of samples; and xi is the ith sample; or,

(*2*) The upper 95 percent confidence limit (UCL) of the true mean divided by 1.10, where:

![](/graphics/er31de13.158.gif)And *x* is the sample mean; s is the sample standard deviation; n is the number of samples; and t0.95 is the t statistic for a 95% one-tailed confidence interval with n-1 degrees of freedom (from Appendix A to subpart B of part 429); And,

(B) Any represented value of the energy efficiency or other measure of energy consumption of a basic model for which consumers would favor higher values shall be less than or equal to the lower of:

(*1*) The mean of the sample, where:

![](/graphics/er31de13.159.gif)And, *x* is the sample mean; n is the number of samples; and xi is the ith sample; or,

(*2*) The lower 95 percent confidence limit (LCL) of the true mean divided by 0.90, where:

![](/graphics/er31de13.160.gif)And *x* is the sample mean; s is the sample standard deviation; n is the number of samples; and t0.95 is the t statistic for a 95% one-tailed confidence interval with n-1 degrees of freedom (from Appendix A to subpart B of part 429).

(2) *Alternative efficiency determination methods.* In lieu of testing, a represented value of efficiency or consumption for a basic model of commercial refrigerator, freezer or refrigerator-freezer must be determined through the application of an AEDM pursuant to the requirements of § 429.70 and the provisions of this section, where:

(i) Any represented value of energy consumption or other measure of energy use of a basic model for which consumers would favor lower values shall be greater than or equal to the output of the AEDM and less than or equal to the Federal standard for that basic model; and

(ii) Any represented value of energy efficiency or other measure of energy consumption of a basic model for which consumers would favor higher values shall be less than or equal to the output of the AEDM and greater than or equal to the Federal standard for that basic model.

(3) *Represented value calculations.* The volume and total display area (TDA) of a basic model, as applicable, is the mean of the measured volumes and the mean of the measured TDAs, as applicable, for the tested units of the basic model, based on the same tests used to determine energy consumption.

(4) *Convertible equipment.* Each basic model of commercial refrigerator, freezer, or refrigerator-freezer that is capable of operating at integrated average temperatures that spans the operating temperature range of multiple equipment classes, either by adjusting a thermostat for a basic model or by the marketed, designed, or intended operation for a basic model with a remote condensing unit but without a thermostat, must determine the represented values, which includes the certified ratings, either by testing, in conjunction with the applicable sampling provisions, or by applying an AEDM to comply with the requirements necessary to certify to each equipment class that the basic model is capable of operating within.

(i) *Customer order storage cabinets.* For customer order storage cabinets that have individual-secured compartments that are convertible between the ≥32 °F and \<32 °F operating temperatures, the customer order storage cabinets must determine the represented values, which includes the certified ratings, either by testing, in conjunction with the applicable sampling provisions, or by applying an AEDM, with all convertible compartments operating either as medium temperature refrigerators or all convertible compartments as low-temperature freezers, or at the lowest application product temperature for each equipment class as specified in § 431.64 of this chapter, to comply with the requirements necessary to certify to each equipment class that the basic model is capable of operating within.

(ii) [Reserved]

(b) *Certification reports.* (1) The requirements of § 429.12 are applicable to commercial refrigerators, freezers, and refrigerator-freezers; and

(2) Pursuant to § 429.12(b)(13), a certification report must include the following public, equipment-specific information:

(i) The daily energy consumption in kilowatt hours per day (kWh/day);

(ii) The rating temperature (e.g. lowest product application temperature, if applicable) in degrees Fahrenheit ( °F); and

(iii) The chilled or frozen compartment volume in cubic feet (ft3), the adjusted volume in cubic feet (ft3), or the total display area (TDA) in feet squared (ft2) (as appropriate for the equipment class).

(3) Pursuant to § 429.12(b)(13), a certification report must include the following additional, equipment-specific information:

(i) Whether the basic model is engineered-to-order; and

(ii) For any basic model rated with an AEDM, whether the manufacturer elects the witness test option for verification testing. (See § 429.70(c)(5)(iii) for options). However, the manufacturer may not select more than 10% of AEDM-rated basic models.

(4) Pursuant to § 429.12(b)(13), a certification report must include supplemental information submitted in PDF format. The equipment-specific, supplemental information must include any additional testing and testing set up instructions (*e.g.,* charging instructions) for the basic model; identification of all special features that were included in rating the basic model; and all other information (*e.g.,* any specific settings or controls) necessary to operate the basic model under the required conditions specified by the relevant test procedure. A manufacturer may also include with a certification report other supplementary items in PDF format (*e.g.,* manuals) for DOE to consider when performing testing under subpart C of this part.

[76 FR 12451, Mar. 7, 2011; 76 FR 24775, May 2, 2011, as amended at 76 FR 38292, June 30, 2011; 78 FR 79593, Dec. 31, 2013; 79 FR 22307, Apr. 21, 2014; 79 FR 25501, May 5, 2014; 80 FR 151, Jan. 5, 2015; 88 FR 66221, Sept. 26, 2023]
