##### ยง 15.15 Procedures when a Department employee receives a subpoena. #####

(a) A Department employee who receives a subpoena shall immediately forward the subpoena to the General Counsel, or the appropriate agency counsel. In the case of an employee of the Patent and Trademark Office, the subpoena shall immediately be forwarded to the Solicitor. The General Counsel, or the Solicitor, or appropriate agency counsel will determine the extent to which a Department employee will comply with the subpoena.

(b) If an employee is served with a subpoena that the General Counsel, or the Solicitor, or appropriate agency counsel determines should not be complied with, the General Counsel, Solicitor or appropriate agency counsel will attempt to have the subpoena withdrawn or modified. If this cannot be done, the General Counsel, Solicitor or appropriate agency counsel will attempt to obtain Department of Justice representation for the employee and move to have the subpoena modified or quashed. If, because of time constraints, this is not possible prior to the compliance date specified in the subpoena, the employee should appear at the time and place set forth in the subpoena. If legal counsel cannot appear on behalf of the employee, the employee should produce a copy of the Department's regulations and inform the legal tribunal that he/she has been advised by counsel not to provide the requested testimony and/or produce documents. If the legal tribunal rules that the demand in the subpoena must be complied with, the employee shall respectfully decline to comply with the demand. *United States ex rel. Touhy* v. *Ragen,* 340 U. S. 462 (1951).

(c) Where the Department employee is an employee of the Office of the Inspector General, the Inspector General in consultation with the General Counsel, will make a determination under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.