cfr/title-02-Grants-Agreements/subtitle-A-Office-Management-Budget-Guidance-Grants-Agreements/chapter-II-Office-Management-Budget-Guidance/part-200-Uniform-Administrative-Requirements-Cost-Principles-Audit-Requirements-Federal-Awards/subpart-E-Cost-Principles/subjectgroup-ECFRed1f39f9b3d4e72-General-Provisions-Selected-Items-Cost/section-200.434.md, before:

##### § 200.434 Contributions and donations. #####

Link to an amendment published at 85 FR 49567, Aug. 13, 2020.

(a) Costs of contributions and donations, including cash, property, and services, from the non-Federal entity to other entities, are unallowable.

(b) The value of services and property donated to the non-Federal entity may not be charged to the Federal award either as a direct or indirect (F&A) cost. The value of donated services and property may be used to meet cost sharing or matching requirements (see § 200.306 Cost sharing or matching). Depreciation on donated assets is permitted in accordance with § 200.436 Depreciation, as long as the donated property is not counted towards cost sharing or matching requirements.

(c) Services donated or volunteered to the non-Federal entity may be furnished to a non-Federal entity by professional and technical personnel, consultants, and other skilled and unskilled labor. The value of these services may not be charged to the Federal award either as a direct or indirect cost. However, the value of donated services may be used to meet cost sharing or matching requirements in accordance with the provisions of § 200.306 Cost sharing or matching.

(d) To the extent feasible, services donated to the non-Federal entity will be supported by the same methods used to support the allocability of regular personnel services.

(e) The following provisions apply to nonprofit organizations. The value of services donated to the nonprofit organization utilized in the performance of a direct cost activity must be considered in the determination of the non-Federal entity's indirect cost rate(s) and, accordingly, must be allocated a proportionate share of applicable indirect costs when the following circumstances exist:

(1) The aggregate value of the services is material;

(2) The services are supported by a significant amount of the indirect costs incurred by the non-Federal entity;

(i) In those instances where there is no basis for determining the fair market value of the services rendered, the non-Federal entity and the cognizant agency for indirect costs must negotiate an appropriate allocation of indirect cost to the services.

(ii) Where donated services directly benefit a project supported by the Federal award, the indirect costs allocated to the services will be considered as a part of the total costs of the project. Such indirect costs may be reimbursed under the Federal award or used to meet cost sharing or matching requirements.

(f) Fair market value of donated services must be computed as described in § 200.306 Cost sharing or matching.

(g) Personal Property and Use of Space.

(1) Donated personal property and use of space may be furnished to a non-Federal entity. The value of the personal property and space may not be charged to the Federal award either as a direct or indirect cost.

(2) The value of the donations may be used to meet cost sharing or matching share requirements under the conditions described in §§ 200.300 Statutory and national policy requirements through 200.309 Period of performance of subpart D of this part. The value of the donations must be determined in accordance with §§ 200.300 Statutory and national policy requirements through 200.309 Period of performance. Where donations are treated as indirect costs, indirect cost rates will separate the value of the donations so that reimbursement will not be made.

[78 FR 78608, Dec. 26, 2013, as amended at 79 FR 75886, Dec. 19, 2014]

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2020-11-16 issue
Title: 5: Administrative Personnel - Sections changed: 22
Title: 7: Agriculture - Sections changed: 5
Title: 13: Business Credit and Assistance - Sections changed: 54
Title: 17: Commodity and Securities Exchanges - Sections changed: 30
Title: 20: Employees' Benefits - Sections changed: 28
Title: 10: Energy - Sections changed: 59
Title: 48: Federal Acquisition Regulations System - Sections changed: 4
Title: 2: Federal Financial Assistance - Sections changed: 3
Title: 21: Food and Drugs - Sections changed: 19
Title: 23: Highways - Sections changed: 24
Title: 29: Labor - Sections changed: 42
Title: 31: Money and Finance: Treasury - Sections changed: 5
Title: 36: Parks, Forests, and Public Property - Sections changed: 4
Title: 40: Protection of Environment - Sections changed: 59
Title: 42: Public Health - Sections changed: 29
Title: 45: Public Welfare - Sections changed: 18
Title: 50: Wildlife and Fisheries - Sections changed: 5

cfr/title-02-Grants-Agreements/subtitle-A-Office-Management-Budget-Guidance-Grants-Agreements/chapter-II-Office-Management-Budget-Guidance/part-200-Uniform-Administrative-Requirements-Cost-Principles-Audit-Requirements-Federal-Awards/subpart-E-Cost-Principles/subjectgroup-ECFRed1f39f9b3d4e72-General-Provisions-Selected-Items-Cost/section-200.434.md, after:

##### § 200.434 Contributions and donations. #####

(a) Costs of contributions and donations, including cash, property, and services, from the non-Federal entity to other entities, are unallowable.

(b) It is permissible for contingency amounts other than those excluded in paragraph (a) of this section to be explicitly included in budget estimates, to the extent they are necessary to improve the precision of those estimates. Amounts must be estimated using broadly-accepted cost estimating methodologies, specified in the budget documentation of the Federal award, and accepted by the Federal awarding agency. As such, contingency amounts are to be included in the Federal award. In order for actual costs incurred to be allowable, they must comply with the cost principles and other requirements in this part (see also §§ 200.300 and 200.403 of this part); be necessary and reasonable for proper and efficient accomplishment of project or program objectives, and be verifiable from the non-Federal entity's records.

(c) Payments made by the Federal awarding agency to the non-Federal entity's “contingency reserve” or any similar payment made for events the occurrence of which cannot be foretold with certainty as to the time or intensity, or with an assurance of their happening, are unallowable, except as noted in §§ 200.431 and 200.447.

(d) To the extent feasible, services donated to the non-Federal entity will be supported by the same methods used to support the allocability of regular personnel services.

(e) The following provisions apply to nonprofit organizations. The value of services donated to the nonprofit organization utilized in the performance of a direct cost activity must be considered in the determination of the non-Federal entity's indirect cost rate(s) and, accordingly, must be allocated a proportionate share of applicable indirect costs when the following circumstances exist:

(1) The aggregate value of the services is material;

(2) The services are supported by a significant amount of the indirect costs incurred by the non-Federal entity;

(i) In those instances where there is no basis for determining the fair market value of the services rendered, the non-Federal entity and the cognizant agency for indirect costs must negotiate an appropriate allocation of indirect cost to the services.

(ii) Where donated services directly benefit a project supported by the Federal award, the indirect costs allocated to the services will be considered as a part of the total costs of the project. Such indirect costs may be reimbursed under the Federal award or used to meet cost sharing or matching requirements.

(f) Fair market value of donated services must be computed as described in § 200.306.

(g) Personal Property and Use of Space.

(1) Donated personal property and use of space may be furnished to a non-Federal entity. The value of the personal property and space may not be charged to the Federal award either as a direct or indirect cost.

(2) The value of the donations may be used to meet cost sharing or matching share requirements under the conditions described in § 200.300 of this part. The value of the donations must be determined in accordance with § 200.300. Where donations are treated as indirect costs, indirect cost rates will separate the value of the donations so that reimbursement will not be made.

[78 FR 78608, Dec. 26, 2013, as amended at 79 FR 75886, Dec. 19, 2014; 85 FR 49567, Aug. 13, 2020]
