##### § 220.21 Initial evaluation of a previous occupational disability. #####

(a) In some cases, the Board may determine that a claimant is not currently disabled for work in his or her regular occupation but was previously disabled for a specified period of time in the past. This can occur when—

(1) The disability application was filed before the claimant's occupational disability ended, but the Board did not make the initial determination of occupational disability until after the claimant's disability ended; or

(2) The disability application was filed after the claimant's occupational disability ended but no later than the 12th month after the month the disability ended.

(b) When evaluating a claim for a previous occupational disability, the Board follows the steps in § 220.13 to determine whether an occupational disability existed, and follows the steps in §§ 220.16 and 220.17 to determine when the occupational disability ended.

Example 1:The claimant sustained multiple fractures to his left leg in an automobile accident which occurred on June 16, 1982. For a period of 18 months following the accident the claimant underwent 2 surgical procedures which restored the functional use of his leg. After a recovery period following the last surgery, the claimant returned to his regular railroad job on February 1, 1984. The claimant, although fully recovered medically and regularly employed, filed an application on December 3, 1984 for a determination of occupational disability for the period June 16, 1982 through January 31, 1984. The Board reviewed his claim in January 1985 and determined that he was occupationally disabled for the prior period which began on June 16, 1982 and continued through January 31, 1984. A disability annuity is payable to the employee only for the period December 1, 1983 through January 31, 1984. An annuity may not begin any earlier than the 1st day of the 12th month before the month in which the application was filed. (See part 218 of this chapter for the rules on when an annuity may begin).Example 2:The claimant is occupationally disabled using the same medical facts disclosed above, beginning June 16, 1982 (the date of the automobile accident). The claimant files an application for an occupational disability annuity, dated December 1, 1983. However, as of February 1, 1984, and before the Board makes a disability determination, the claimant returns to his regular railroad job and is no longer considered occupationally disabled. The Board reviews the claimant's application in May of 1984 and finds him occupationally disabled for the period June 16, 1982 through January 31, 1984. A disability annuity is payable to the employee from December 1, 1982 through January 31, 1984. (See part 218 of this chapter for the rules on when an annuity may begin).