##### § 128.201 What other eligibility requirements apply for certification as a VOSB or SDVOSB? #####

(a) *Suspension and debarment.* (1) In order to be eligible for VOSB or SDVOSB certification and to remain certified, the concern and any of its owners must not have an active exclusion in SAM.

(2) An Applicant or Participant must immediately notify SBA of any active exclusion.

(3) If, after certifying a Participant, SBA discovers that a firm has been suspended from Federal Government contracting, SBA will propose the firm for decertification pursuant to § 128.310.

(4) If, after certifying a Participant, SBA discovers that a firm has been debarred from federal government contracting, SBA will remove the Participant from the certification database immediately, notwithstanding the provisions of § 128.310.

(b) *False statements.* If, during the processing of an application, SBA determines, by a preponderance of the evidence standard, that an Applicant or its representative has knowingly submitted false information, regardless of whether correct information would cause SBA to deny the application, and regardless of whether correct information was given to SBA in accompanying documents, SBA will deny the application. If, after certifying a Participant, SBA discovers that a firm or its representative knowingly submitted false information, SBA will initiate proceedings to decertify the Participant and remove it from the certification database pursuant to § 128.310. Whenever SBA determines that the Applicant or representative of an Applicant submitted false information, the matter will be referred to the SBA Office of Inspector General for review. In addition, SBA may request that Government-wide debarment proceedings be initiated by the agency.

(c) *Financial obligations.* An Applicant is not eligible for certification as a VOSB or SDVOSB if the concern, or any of the principals, fail to pay significant financial obligations owed to the Federal Government, including unresolved tax liens and defaults on Federal loans, or other government-assisted financing. An Applicant may become eligible for certification as a VOSB or SDVOSB if the firm or the affected principals can demonstrate that the financial obligations owed have been settled, discharged, or forgiven by the Federal Government. If, after certifying a Participant, SBA discovers that the Participant or any principals have failed to pay significant financial obligations owed to the Federal Government, SBA will initiate proceedings to decertify the Participant and remove it from the certification database pursuant to § 128.310.