##### § 10.738 Retail packaging materials and containers. #####

(a) *Effect on tariff shift rule.* Packaging materials and containers in which a good is packaged for retail sale, if classified with the good for which preferential tariff treatment under the AFTA is claimed, will be disregarded in determining whether all non-originating materials used in the production of the good undergo the applicable change in tariff classification set out in General Note 28(n), HTSUS.

(b) *Effect on regional value content calculation.* If the good is subject to a regional value content requirement, the value of such packaging materials and containers will be taken into account as originating or non-originating materials, as the case may be, in calculating the regional value content of the good.

Example 1.Australian Producer A of good C imports 100 non-originating blister packages to be used as retail packaging for good C. As provided in § 10.735(a)(1) of this subpart, the value of the blister packages is their adjusted value, which in this case is $10. Good C has a regional value content requirement. The United States importer of good C decides to use the build-down method, RVC = ((AV − VNM)/AV) × 100 (*see* § 10.734(b) of this subpart), in determining whether good C satisfies the regional value content requirement. In applying this method, the non-originating blister packages are taken into account as non-originating. As such, their $10 adjusted value is included in the VNM, value of non-originating materials, of good C.Example 2.Same facts as in Example 1, except that the blister packages are originating. In this case, the adjusted value of the originating blister packages would *not* be included as part of the VNM of good C under the build-down method. However, if the U.S. importer had used the build-up method, RVC = (VOM/AV) × 100 (*see* § 10.734(c) of this subpart), the adjusted value of the blister packaging would be included as part of the VOM, value of originating materials.