##### § 206.205 Property charges. #####

(a) *General.* The mortgagor shall pay all property charges consisting of taxes, ground rents, flood and hazard insurance premiums, and special assessments in a timely manner and shall provide evidence of payment to the mortgagee as required in the mortgage.

(b) *Election.* A mortgagor may elect to require the mortgagee to pay property charges by withholding funds from monthly payments due to the mortgagor or by charging such funds to a line of credit. The mortgagor may make or rescind such an election at any time. If the sum of the mortgage balance and any unused set asides for repairs and servicing charges has reached the principal limit or the mortgage funds are otherwise insufficient to pay the property charges, the mortgagor shall pay such items as provided in paragraph (a) of this section, even though the mortgagor elected payment to be made by the mortgagee.

(c) *Mortgagor's failure to make payments.* If the mortgagor fails to pay the property charges in a timely manner, and has not elected to have the mortgagee make the payments, the mortgagee may make the payment for the mortgagor and charge the mortgagor's account. If a pattern of missed payments occurs, the mortgagee may establish procedures to pay the property charges from the mortgagor's funds as if the mortgagor elected to have the mortgagee pay the property charges under this section.

(d) *Assignment of mortgage to the Secretary.* If the insured first mortgage is assigned to the Secretary under § 206.107(a)(1) or § 206.121(a), or if payments are made through the second mortgage under § 206.121(c), the Secretary is not required to assume the mortgagee's responsibility under paragraph (b) of this section, despite the election by the mortgagor.

(e) *Mortgagee's responsibilities.* (1) Funds withheld from payments due to the mortgagor for property charges under paragraph (b) of this section shall not be paid into an escrow account. When property charges are actually paid, the mortgagee may add the amount paid to the mortgage balance.

(2) It is the mortgagee's responsibility to make disbursements for property charges before bills become delinquent. Mortgagees must establish controls to ensure that the information needed to pay such bills is obtained on a timely basis. Penalties for late payments for property charges must not be charged to the mortgagor unless it can be shown that the penalty was the direct result of the mortgagor's error or omission. Early payment of a bill to take advantage of a discount should be made whenever it is to the mortgagor's benefit.

(3) Not later than the end of the second loan year the mortgagee shall establish a system for the periodic analysis of the amounts withheld from monthly payments. The analysis shall be performed at least once a year thereafter. The amount shall be adjusted, after analysis, to provide sufficient available funds to make anticipated disbursements during the ensuing year. The mortgagor shall be given at least ten days notice of adjustment in the amount of withholding and an adequate explanation of the reasons for any change. When the amount withheld is analyzed in accordance with this paragraph, any surplus shall be paid to the mortgagor and added to the mortgage balance. Any shortage shall be corrected through increasing the monthly withholding as provided in paragraph (e)(4) of this section. If amounts withheld are insufficient to pay a property charge before it is delinquent, and the mortgagor could request a payment equal to the shortage under § 206.26(c), then the mortgagee shall pay the full property charge and treat payment of the shortage as a payment requested by the mortgagor under § 206.26(c).

(4) The mortgagee's estimate of withholding amount shall be based on the best information available as to probable payments which will be required to be made for property charges in the coming year. If actual disbursements during the preceding year are used as the basis, the resulting estimate may deviate from those disbursements by as much as ten percent. The mortgagee may not require withholding in excess of the current estimated total annual requirement, unless expressly requested by the mortgagor. Each monthly withholding for property charges shall equal one-twelfth of the annual amounts as reasonably estimated by the mortgagee.

(f) *Set aside for first year property charges.* If the mortgagor elects to require the mortgagee to pay property charges and to receive payments under the term or tenure payment option, then the mortgagee shall set aside at closing a portion of the principal limit that will be sufficient to pay such items for the period beginning in the last date on which each such charge would have been paid under the normal lending practices of the mortgagee and local custom (if each such date constitutes prudent lending practice), and ending in the due date of the first monthly payment to the mortgagor.

[54 FR 24833, June 9, 1989; 54 FR 32060, Aug. 4, 1989, as amended at 60 FR 42762, Aug. 16, 1995]