##### ยง 232.1 Scope. #####

(a) This part prescribes Federal safety standards for freight and other non-passenger train brake systems and equipment. Subpart E of this part prescribes Federal safety standards not only for freight and other non-passenger train brake systems and equipment, but also for passenger train brake systems. This part does not restrict a railroad from adopting or enforcing additional or more stringent requirements not inconsistent with this part.

(b) Except as otherwise specifically provided in this paragraph or in this part, railroads to which this part applies shall comply with all the requirements contained in subparts A through C and subpart F of this part beginning on April 1, 2004. Sections 232.1 through 232.13 and 232.17 through 232.21 of this part will become applicable to all railroads to which this part applies beginning on May 31, 2001. Subpart D of this part will become applicable to all railroads to which this part applies beginning on August 1, 2001. Subpart E of this part will become applicable to all trains operating on track which is part of the general railroad system of transportation beginning on May 31, 2001.

(c) A railroad may request earlier application of the requirements contained in subparts A through C and subpart F of this part upon written notification to FRA's Associate Administrator for Safety. Such a request shall indicate the railroad's readiness and ability to comply with all of the requirements contained in those subparts.

(d) Except for operations identified in ยง 232.3(c)(1), (c)(4), and (c)(6) through (c)(8), all railroads which are part of the general railroad system of transportation shall operate pursuant to the requirements contained in this part 232 as it existed on May 31, 2001 and included as appendix B to this part until they are either required to operate pursuant to the requirements contained in this part or the requirements contained in part 238 of this chapter or they elect to comply earlier than otherwise required with the requirements contained in this part or the requirements contained in part 238 of this chapter.

[66 FR 4193, Jan. 17, 2001, as amended at 66 FR 9906, Feb. 12, 2001]