##### ยง 2200.91 Discretionary review; petitions for discretionary review; statements in opposition to petitions. #####

(a) *Review discretionary.* Review by the Commission is not a right. A Commissioner may, as a matter of discretion, direct review on his own motion or on the petition of a party.

(b) *Petitions for discretionary review.* A party adversely affected or aggrieved by the decision of the Judge may seek review by the Commission by filing a petition for discretionary review. Discretionary review by the Commission may be sought by filing with the Judge a petition for discretionary review within the 10-day period provided by ยง 2200.90(b)(2). Review by the Commission may also be sought by filing directly with the Executive Secretary a petition for discretionary review. A petition filed directly with the Executive Secretary shall be filed within 20 days after the date of docketing of the Judge's report. The earlier a petition is filed, the more consideration it can be given. A petition for discretionary review may be conditional, and may state that review is sought only if a Commissioner were to direct review on the petition of an opposing party.

(c) *Cross-petitions for discretionary review.* Where a petition for discretionary review has been filed by one party, any other party adversely affected or aggrieved by the decision of the Judge may seek review by the Commission by filing a cross-petition for discretionary review. The cross-petition may be conditional. See paragraph (b) of this section. A cross-petition shall be filed with the Judge during the 10 days provided by ยง 2200.90(b) or directly with the Executive Secretary within 27 days after the date of docketing of the Judge's report. The earlier a cross-petition is filed, the more consideration it can be given.

(d) *Contents of the petition.* No particular form is required for a petition for discretionary review. A petition should state why review should be directed, including: Whether the Judge's decision raises an important question of law, policy or discretion; whether review by the Commission will resolve a question about which the Commission's Judges have rendered differing opinions; whether the Judge's decision is contrary to law or Commission precedent; whether a finding of material fact is not supported by a preponderance of the evidence; whether a prejudicial error of procedure or an abuse of discretion was committed. A petition should concisely state the portions of the decision for which review is sought and should refer to the citations and citation items (for example, citation 3, item 4a) for which review is sought. A petition shall not incorporate by reference a brief or legal memorandum. Brevity and the inclusion of precise references to the record and legal authorities will facilitate prompt review of the petition.

(e) *When filing effective.* A petition for discretionary review is filed when received. If a petition has been filed with the Judge, another petition need not be filed with the Commission.

(f) *Failure to file.* The failure of a party adversely affected or aggrieved by the Judge's decision to file a petition for discretionary review may foreclose court review of the objections to the Judge's decision. *See Keystone Roofing Co.* v. *Dunlop,* 539 F.2d 960 (3d Cir. 1976).

(g) *Statements in opposition to petition.* Statements in opposition to petitions for discretionary review may be filed in the manner specified in this section for the filing of petitions for discretionary review. Statements in opposition shall concisely state why the Judge's decision should not be reviewed with respect to each portion of the petition to which it is addressed.

[51 FR 32015, Sept. 8, 1986; 52 FR 13832, Apr. 27, 1987, as amended at 55 FR 22783, June 4, 1990; 62 FR 35963, July 3, 1997; 73 FR 56492, Sept. 29, 2008; 74 FR 63987, Dec. 7, 2009]