##### § 680.43 Revocation of CVC and CPC QS. #####

(a) Beginning July 1, 2019, the Regional Administrator will revoke all CVC QS and CPC QS held by an individual who has not met the participation requirements set forth in § 680.40(m). The Regional Administrator will revoke an individual's CVC QS or CPC QS in accordance with the procedures set forth in this section.

(b) *Notice of C Share QS Inactivity.* The Regional Administrator will issue a Notice of C Share QS Inactivity to an individual holding CVC or CPC QS if, after reviewing the CVC or CPC QS holder's Applications for Annual Crab IFQ Permit, the Regional Administrator determines that the CVC or CPC QS holder has failed to meet the participation requirements in § 680.40(m). A CVC or CPC QS holder who receives such a Notice will have 60 days to provide the Regional Administrator with information demonstrating participation as crew that meets the requirements of § 680.40(m).

(c) *Initial administrative determination (IAD).* The Regional Administrator will prepare and send an IAD to the CVC or CPC QS holder following the expiration of the 60-day evidentiary period if the Regional Administrator determines that the information or evidence provided by the CVC or CPC QS holder fails to demonstrate participation as crew and is insufficient to rebut the information included in the CVC or CPC QS holder's Applications for Annual Crab IFQ Permit, or if the additional information or evidence is not provided within the time period specified in the Notice of C Share QS Inactivity. The IAD will explain the basis for the revocation determination. A CVC or CPC QS holder who receives an IAD for revocation may appeal under the appeals procedures set forth at 15 CFR part 906. A CVC or CPC QS holder who avails himself or herself of the opportunity to appeal an IAD for revocation will not receive crab IFQ or IPQ until after the final resolution of that appeal in the QS holder's favor.

(d) *Emergency rule suspending revocation of CVC and CPC QS.* Under emergency measures effective July 15, 2022, and notwithstanding any other section of this part, the Regional Administrator will not consider participation requirements set forth in § 680.40(m) and will not revoke an individual's CVC QS or CPC QS for the 2022/2023 crab fishing year and will not begin proceedings to revoke any CVC QS or CPC QS upon reviewing an Application for Annual Crab Individual Fishing Quota (IFQ) Permit submitted in 2022.

[80 FR 15899, Mar. 26, 2015, as amended at 87 FR 42394, July 15, 2022]Effective Date Note:At 87 FR 42394, July 15, 2022, § 680.43 was amended by adding paragraph (d), effective July 15, 2022 through Jan. 11, 2023.