##### § 309.17 Labels. #####

All labels must meet the following specifications:

(a) *Layout:*

(1) *Non-liquid alternative vehicle fuel (other than electricity) labels with disclosure of principal component only.* The label is 3″ (7.62 cm) wide × 21/2″ (6.35 cm) long. “Helvetica black” type is used throughout. All type is centered. The band at the top of the label contains the name of the fuel. This band should measure 1″ (2.54 cm) deep. Spacing of the fuel name is1/4″ (.64 cm) from the top of the label and3/16″ (.48 cm) from the bottom of the black band, centered horizontally within the black band. The first line of type beneath the black band is1/8″ (.32 cm) from the bottom of the black band. All type below the black band is centered horizontally, with1/8″ (.32 cm) between lines. The bottom line of type is3/16″ (.48 cm) from the bottom of the label. All type should fall no closer than3/16″ (.48 cm) from the side edges of the label. If you wish to change the format of this single component label, you must petition the Federal Trade Commission. You can do this by writing to the Secretary of the Federal Trade Commission, Washington, DC 20580. You must state the size and contents of the label that you wish to use, and the reasons that you want to use it.

(2) *Non-liquid alternative vehicle fuel (other than electricity) labels with disclosure of two components.* The label is 3″ (7.62 cm) wide × 21/2″ (6.35 cm) long. “Helvetica black” type is used throughout. All type is centered. The band at the top of the label contains the name of the fuel. This band should measure 1″ (2.54 cm) deep. Spacing of the fuel name is1/4″ (.64 cm) from the top of the label and3/16″ (.48 cm) from the bottom of the black band, centered horizontally within the black band. The first line of type beneath the black band is3/16″ (.48 cm) from the bottom of the black band. All type below the black band is centered horizontally, with1/8″ (.32 cm) between lines. The bottom line of type is1/4″ (.64 cm) from the bottom of the label. All type should fall no closer than3/16″ (.48 cm) from the side edges of the label. If you wish to change the format of this two component label, you must petition the Federal Trade Commission. You can do this by writing to the Secretary of the Federal Trade Commission, Washington, DC 20580. You must state the size and contents of the label that you wish to use, and the reasons that you want to use it.

(3) *Electric vehicle fuel dispensing system labels.* The label is 3″ (7.62 cm) wide × 21/2″ (6.35 cm) long. “Helvetica black” type is used throughout. All type is centered. The band at the top of the label contains the common identifier of the fuel. This band should measure 1″ (2.54 cm) deep. Spacing of the common identifier is1/4″ (.64 cm) from the top of the label and3/16″ (.48 cm) from the bottom of the black band, centered horizontally within the black band. The first line of type beneath the black band is3/16″ (.48 cm) from the bottom of the black band. All type below the black band is centered horizontally, with1/8″ (.32 cm) between lines. The bottom line of type is1/4″ (.64 cm) from the bottom of the label. All type should fall no closer than3/16″ (.48 cm) from the side edges of the label.

(b) *Type size and setting:*

(1) *Labels for non-liquid alternative vehicle fuels (other than electricity) with disclosure of principal component only.* All type should be set in upper case (all caps) “Helvetica Black” throughout. Helvetica Black is available in a variety of computer desk-top and photo-typesetting systems. Its name may vary, but the type must conform in style and thickness to the sample provided here. The spacing between letters and words should be set as “normal.” The type for the fuel name is 50 point (1/2″ (1.27 cm) cap height) knocked out of a 1″ (2.54 cm) deep band. The type for the words “MINIMUM” and the principal component is 24 pt. (1/4″ (.64 cm) cap height). The type for percentage is 36 pt. (3/8″ (.96 cm) cap height).

(2) *Labels for non-liquid alternative vehicle fuels (other than electricity) with disclosure of two components.* All type should be set in upper case (all caps) “Helvetica Black” throughout. Helvetica Black is available in a variety of computer desk-top and photo-typesetting systems. Its name may vary, but the type must conform in style and thickness to the sample provided here. The spacing between letters and words should be set as “normal.” The type for the fuel name is 50 point (1/2″ 1.27 cm) cap height) knocked out of a 1″ (2.54 cm) deep band. All other type is 24 pt. (1/4″ (.64 cm) cap height).

(3) *Labels for electric vehicle fuel dispensing systems.* All type should be set in upper case (all caps) “Helvetica Black” throughout. Helvetica Black is available in a variety of computer desk-top and photo-typesetting systems. Its name may vary, but the type must conform in style and thickness to the sample provided here. The spacing between letters and words should be set as “normal.” The type for the common identifier is 50 point (1/2″ 1.27 cm) cap height) knocked out of a 1″ (2.54 cm) deep band. All other type is 24 pt. (1/4″ (.64 cm) cap height).

(c) *Colors:* The background color on the labels for all non-liquid alternative vehicle fuels (including electricity), and the color of the knock-out type within the black band, is Orange: PMS 1495. All other type is process black. All borders are process black. All colors must be non-fade.

(d) *Contents.* Examples of the contents are shown in Figures 1 through 3. The proper fuel rating for each non-liquid alternative vehicle fuel (including electricity) must be shown. No marks or information other than that called for by this part may appear on the labels.

(e) *Special label protection.* All labels must be capable of withstanding extremes of weather conditions for a period of at least one year. They must be resistant to vehicle fuel, oil, grease, solvents, detergents, and water.

(f) *Illustrations of labels.* Labels must meet the specifications in this section and look like Figures 1 through 3 of appendix A, except the black print should be on the appropriately colored background.