##### ยง 518.9 Reading room. #####

(a) *Reading room location.* The DA shall provide an appropriate facility or facilities where the public may inspect and copy or have copied the records described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section. In addition to the records described, DA may elect to place other records in their reading room, and also make them electronically available to the public. The Army may share reading room facilities with DoD Components if the public is not unduly inconvenienced, and also may establish decentralized reading rooms. When appropriate, the cost of copying may be imposed on the person requesting the material in accordance with the provisions of subpart F of this part. The Army FOIA Public Reading Room is operated by the DA, FOIA/PA Office.

(b) *Record availability.* The FOIA requires that records described in 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(2)(A), (B), (C), and (D) created on or after November 1, 1996, shall be made available electronically, as well as in hard copy in the FOIA reading room for inspection and copying, unless such records are published and copies are offered for sale. All portions determined to be exempt in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552 (reference (a)) shall be deleted from all 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(2) records made available to the general public. In every case, justification for the deletion must be fully explained in writing, and the extent of such deletion shall be indicated on the record that is made publicly available, unless such indication would harm an interest protected by an exemption under which the deletion was made. If technically feasible, the extent of the deletion in electronic records or any other form of record shall be indicated at the place in the record where the deletion was made. However, the Army may publish in the Federal Register a description of the basis upon which it will delete identifying details of particular types of records to avoid clearly unwarranted invasions of privacy, or competitive harm to business submitters. In appropriate cases, the Army may refer to this description rather than write a separate justification for each deletion. 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(2)(A), (B), (C), and (D) records are:

(1) *(a)(2)(A) records.* Final opinions, including concurring and dissenting opinions, and orders made in the adjudication of cases, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 551, that may be cited, used, or relied upon as precedents in future adjudications;

(2) *(a)(2)(B) records.* Statements of policy and interpretations that have been adopted by the agency that are not published in the Federal Register; and

(3) *(a)(2)(C) records.* Administrative staff manuals and instructions, or portions thereof that establish Army policy or interpretations of policy that affect a member of the public. This provision does not apply to instructions for employees on tactics and techniques to be used in performing their duties, or to instructions relating only to the internal management of the Army. Examples of manuals and instructions not normally made available are:

(i) Those issued for audit, investigation, and inspection purposes, or those that prescribe operational tactics, standards of performance, or criteria for defense, prosecution, or settlement of cases; and

(ii) Operations and maintenance manuals and technical information concerning munitions, equipment, systems, and intelligence activities.

(4) *(a)(2)(D) records.* Those 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(3) records, which because of the nature of the subject matter, have become or are likely to become the subject of subsequent requests for substantially the same records. These records are referred to as FOIA-processed (a)(2) records.

(i) Army Activities shall decide on a case by case basis whether records fall into this category, based on previous experience of the Army Activity with similar records; particular circumstances of the records involved, including their nature and the type of information contained in them; or the identity and number of requesters and whether there is widespread press, historic, or commercial interest in the records.

(ii) This provision is intended for situations where public access in a timely manner is important, and it is not intended to apply where there may be a limited number of requests over a short period of time from a few requesters. Army Activities may remove the records from this access medium when the appropriate officials determine that access is no longer necessary.

(iii) Should a requester submit a FOIA request for FOIA-processed (a)(2) records, and insist that the request be processed, Army Activities shall process the FOIA request. However, Army Activities have no obligation to process a FOIA request for 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(2)(A), (B), and (C) records because these records are required to be made public and not FOIA-processed under paragraph (a)(3) of the FOIA.