cfr/title-12-Banks-Banking/chapter-I-Comptroller-Currency-Department-Treasury/part-195-Community-Reinvestment/subpart-A-General/section-195.11.md, before:

##### § 195.11 Authority, purposes, and scope. #####

Link to an amendment published at 85 FR 42661, July 14, 2020.

(a) *Authority.* This part is issued under the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 (CRA), as amended (12 U.S.C. 2901 *et seq.*); section 5, as amended, and sections 3, and 4, as added, of the Home Owners' Loan Act of 1933 (12 U.S.C. 1462a, 1463, and 1464); and sections 4, 6, and 18(c), as amended of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1814, 1816, 1828(c)).

(b) *Purposes.* In enacting the CRA, the Congress required each appropriate Federal financial supervisory agency to assess an institution's record of helping to meet the credit needs of the local communities in which the institution is chartered, consistent with the safe and sound operation of the institution, and to take this record into account in the agency's evaluation of an application for a deposit facility by the institution. This part is intended to carry out the purposes of the CRA by:

(1) Establishing the framework and criteria by which the appropriate Federal banking agency assesses a savings association's record of helping to meet the credit needs of its entire community, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods, consistent with the safe and sound operation of the savings association; and

(2) Providing that the appropriate Federal banking agency takes that record into account in considering certain applications.

(c) *Scope* - (1) *General.* This part applies to all savings associations except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.

(2) *Certain special purpose savings associations.* This part does not apply to special purpose savings associations that do not perform commercial or retail banking services by granting credit to the public in the ordinary course of business, other than as incident to their specialized operations. These associations include banker's banks, as defined in 12 U.S.C. 24 (Seventh), and associations that engage only in one or more of the following activities: Providing cash management controlled disbursement services or serving as correspondent associations, trust companies, or clearing agents.

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2020-08-13 issue
Title: 12: Banks and Banking - Sections changed: 134
Title: 15: Commerce and Foreign Trade - Sections changed: 2
Title: 2: Federal Financial Assistance - Sections changed: 111
Title: 21: Food and Drugs - Sections changed: 1
Title: 40: Protection of Environment - Sections changed: 25

cfr/title-12-Banks-Banking/chapter-I-Comptroller-Currency-Department-Treasury/part-195-Community-Reinvestment/subpart-A-General/section-195.11.md, after:

##### § 195.11 Authority, purposes, and scope. #####

(a) *Authority.* This part is issued under the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 (CRA), as amended (12 U.S.C. 2901 *et seq.*); section 5, as amended, and sections 3, and 4, as added, of the Home Owners' Loan Act of 1933 (12 U.S.C. 1462a, 1463, and 1464); sections 4, 6, and 18(c), as amended of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1814, 1816, 1828(c)); and section 312 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (12 U.S.C. 5412(b)(2)(B)).

(b) *Purposes.* In enacting the CRA, the Congress required each appropriate Federal financial supervisory agency to assess an institution's record of helping to meet the credit needs of the local communities in which the institution is chartered, consistent with the safe and sound operation of the institution, and to take this record into account in the agency's evaluation of an application for a deposit facility by the institution. This part is intended to carry out the purposes of the CRA by:

(1) Establishing the framework and criteria by which the appropriate Federal banking agency assesses a savings association's record of helping to meet the credit needs of its entire community, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods, consistent with the safe and sound operation of the savings association; and

(2) Providing that the appropriate Federal banking agency takes that record into account in considering certain applications.

(c) *Scope* - (1) *General.* This part applies to all savings associations except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.

(2) *Certain special purpose savings associations.* This part does not apply to special purpose savings associations that do not perform commercial or retail banking services by granting credit to the public in the ordinary course of business, other than as incident to their specialized operations. These associations include banker's banks, as defined in 12 U.S.C. 24 (Seventh), and associations that engage only in one or more of the following activities: Providing cash management controlled disbursement services or serving as correspondent associations, trust companies, or clearing agents.

[76 FR 49179, Aug. 9, 2011, as amended at 85 FR 42661, July 14, 2020]
