##### ยง 989.154 Marketing policy computations. #####

(a) *Desirable carryout levels.* The desirable carryout level to be used in computing and announcing a crop year's marketing policy for Natural (sun-dried) Seedless raisins shall be 85,000 natural condition tons. The desirable carryout level to be used in computing and announcing a crop year's marketing policy for all other varietal types of raisins specified in ยง 989.110 shall be equal to the total shipments of free tonnage during August, September, and one-half of October for each of the past 5 crop years, for each such varietal type, converted to a natural condition basis, dropping the high and low figures, and dividing the remaining sum by three.

(b) *Estimated trade demand.* Pursuant to ยง 989.54 (e)(4), estimated trade demand is a figure different than the trade demand computed according to the formula in ยง 989.54(a). The Committee shall use an estimated trade demand to compute preliminary and interim free and reserve percentages, or determine such final percentages for recommendation to the Secretary for 2007-08 crop Natural (sun-dried) Seedless (NS) raisins if the crop estimate is equal to, less than, or no more than 10 percent greater than the computed trade demand: *Provided,* That the final reserve percentage computed using such estimated trade demand shall be no more than 10 percent, and no reserve shall be established if the final 2007-08 NS raisin crop estimate is less than 215,000 natural condition tons.

[64 FR 43902, Aug. 12, 1999, as amended at 65 FR 44408, July 18, 2000; 67 FR 52393, Aug. 12, 2002; 72 FR 54347, Sept. 25, 2007; 76 FR 42009, July 18, 2011]