cfr/title-23-Highways/chapter-I-Federal-Highway-Administration-Department-Transportation/subchapter-E-Planning-Research/part-450-Planning-Assistance-Standards/subpart-B-Statewide-Nonmetropolitan-Transportation-Planning-Programming/section-450.226.md, before:

##### § 450.226 Phase-in of new requirements. #####

Link to an amendment published at 81 FR 93470, December 20, 2016.

(a) Prior to May 27, 2018, a State may adopt a long-range statewide transportation plan that has been developed using the SAFETEA-LU requirements or the provisions and requirements of this part. On or after May 27, 2018, a State may only adopt a long-range statewide transportation plan that it has developed according to the provisions and requirements of this part.

(b) Prior to May 27, 2018 (2 years after the publication date of this rule), FHWA/FTA may approve a STIP update or amendment that has been developed using the SAFETEA-LU requirements or the provisions and requirements of this part. On or after May 27, 2018, FHWA/FTA may only approve a STIP update or amendment that a State has developed according to the provisions and requirements of this part, regardless of when the State developed the STIP.

(c) On and after May 27, 2018 (2 years after the publication date of this rule), the FHWA and the FTA will take action on an updated or amended STIP developed under the provisions of this part, even if the State has not yet adopted a new long-range statewide transportation plan under the provisions of this part, as long as the underlying transportation planning process is consistent with the requirements in the MAP-21.

(d) On or after May 27, 2018, a State may make an administrative modification to a STIP that conforms to either the SAFETEA-LU requirements or to the provisions and requirements of this part.

(e) Two years from the effective date of each rule establishing performance measures under 23 U.S.C. 150(c), 49 U.S.C. 5326, or 49 U.S.C. 5329, FHWA/FTA will only approve an updated or amended STIP that is based on a statewide transportation planning process that meets the performance-based planning requirements in this part and in such a rule.

(f) Prior to 2 years from the effective date of each rule establishing performance measures under 23 U.S.C. 150(c), 49 U.S.C. 5326, or 49 U.S.C. 5329, a State may adopt a long-range statewide transportation plan that it has developed using the SAFETEA-LU requirements or the performance-based provisions and requirements of this part and in such a rule. Two years on or after the effective date of each rule establishing performance measures under 23 U.S.C. 150(c), 49 U.S.C. 5326, or 49 U.S.C. 5329, a State may only adopt a long-range statewide transportation plan that it has developed according to the performance-based provisions and requirements of this part and in such a rule.

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2017-01-19 issue
Title: 9: Animals and Animal Products - Sections changed: 16
Title: 19: Customs Duties - Sections changed: 291
Title: 34: Education - Sections changed: 19
Title: 48: Federal Acquisition Regulations System - Sections changed: 30
Title: 2: Federal Financial Assistance - Sections changed: 1
Title: 21: Food and Drugs - Sections changed: 6
Title: 22: Foreign Relations - Sections changed: 22
Title: 23: Highways - Sections changed: 18
Title: 24: Housing and Urban Development - Sections changed: 21
Title: 29: Labor - Sections changed: 24
Title: 31: Money and Finance: Treasury - Sections changed: 22
Title: 32: National Defense - Sections changed: 9
Title: 37: Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights - Sections changed: 2
Title: 38: Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief - Sections changed: 7
Title: 39: Postal Service - Sections changed: 1
Title: 42: Public Health - Sections changed: 39
Title: 43: Public Lands: Interior - Sections changed: 10

cfr/title-23-Highways/chapter-I-Federal-Highway-Administration-Department-Transportation/subchapter-E-Planning-Research/part-450-Planning-Assistance-Standards/subpart-B-Statewide-Nonmetropolitan-Transportation-Planning-Programming/section-450.226.md, after:

##### § 450.226 Phase-in of new requirements. #####

(a) Prior to May 27, 2018, a State may adopt a long-range statewide transportation plan that has been developed using the SAFETEA-LU requirements or the provisions and requirements of this part. On or after May 27, 2018, a State may only adopt a long-range statewide transportation plan that it has developed according to the provisions and requirements of this part.

(b) Prior to May 27, 2018 (2 years after the publication date of this rule), FHWA/FTA may approve a STIP update or amendment that has been developed using the SAFETEA-LU requirements or the provisions and requirements of this part. On or after May 27, 2018, FHWA/FTA may only approve a STIP update or amendment that a State has developed according to the provisions and requirements of this part, regardless of when the State developed the STIP.

(c) On and after May 27, 2018 (2 years after the publication date of this rule), the FHWA and the FTA will take action on an updated or amended STIP developed under the provisions of this part, even if the State has not yet adopted a new long-range statewide transportation plan under the provisions of this part, as long as the underlying transportation planning process is consistent with the requirements in the MAP-21.

(d) On or after May 27, 2018, a State may make an administrative modification to a STIP that conforms to either the SAFETEA-LU requirements or to the provisions and requirements of this part.

(e) Two years from the effective date of each rule establishing performance measures under 23 U.S.C. 150(c), 49 U.S.C. 5326, or 49 U.S.C. 5329, FHWA/FTA will only approve an updated or amended STIP that is based on a statewide transportation planning process that meets the performance-based planning requirements in this part and in such a rule.

(f) Prior to 2 years from the effective date of each rule establishing performance measures under 23 U.S.C. 150(c), 49 U.S.C. 5326, or 49 U.S.C. 5329, a State may adopt a long-range statewide transportation plan that it has developed using the SAFETEA-LU requirements or the performance-based provisions and requirements of this part and in such a rule. Two years on or after the effective date of each rule establishing performance measures under 23 U.S.C. 150(c), 49 U.S.C. 5326, or 49 U.S.C. 5329, a State may only adopt a long-range statewide transportation plan that it has developed according to the performance-based provisions and requirements of this part and in such a rule.

(g) With respect to requirements added in § 450.208(a)(1) on January 19, 2017: On and after the date 2 years after the date that the U.S. Census Bureau releases its notice of Qualifying Urban Areas following the 2020 census, the State(s), the MPO(s) and the operators of public transportation must comply with the new requirements, including the requirement for a current metropolitan planning agreement that identifies coordination strategies that support cooperative decision-making and the resolution of disagreements.

[81 FR 34135, May 27, 2016, as amended at 81 FR 93470, Dec. 20, 2016]
