##### ยง 250.70 Situations of distress. #####

(a) *Use of donated foods to provide congregate meals.* The distributing agency may provide donated foods from current inventories, either at the distributing or recipient agency level, to a disaster organization, for use in providing congregate meals to persons in need of food assistance because of a situation of distress, as this term is defined in ยง 250.2. If the situation of distress results from a natural event (*e.g.,* a hurricane, flood, or snowstorm), such donated food assistance may be provided for a period not to exceed 30 days, without the need for FNS approval. However, the distributing agency must notify FNS that such assistance is to be provided. FNS approval must be obtained to permit such donated food assistance for a period exceeding 30 days. If the situation of distress results from other than a natural event (*e.g.,* an explosion), FNS approval is required to permit donated food assistance for use in providing congregate meals for any period of time.

(b) *Use of donated foods for distribution to households.* The distributing agency must receive FNS approval to provide donated foods from current inventories, either at the distributing or recipient agency level, to a disaster organization for distribution to households in need of food assistance because of a situation of distress. Such distribution may continue for the period of time that FNS determines necessary to meet the needs of such households. However, households receiving D-SNAP benefits are not eligible to receive such donated food assistance.

(c) *Approval of disaster organizations.* Before distribution of donated foods to a disaster organization, the distributing agency must review and approve such organization's application in accordance with applicable FNS guidance, which must be submitted to the distributing agency either electronically or in written form. The distributing agency must also submit such application to FNS for review and approval before permitting distribution of donated foods in a situation of distress that is not the result of a natural event, or for any distribution of donated foods to households. The disaster organization's application must, to the extent possible, include the information required in ยง 250.69(c).

(d) *Information from households.* If the issuance of D-SNAP benefits has been approved, the distributing agency must ensure that the disaster organization obtains the information in ยง 250.69(d) from households receiving donated foods, and reports such information to the distributing agency.

(e) *Eligibility of emergency relief workers for congregate meals.* The disaster organization may use donated foods to provide meals to any emergency relief workers at the congregate feeding site that are directly engaged in providing relief assistance.

(f) *Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.* The distributing agency must report to FNS the number and location of sites where donated foods are used in congregate meals or household distribution as these sites are established. The distributing agency must also report the types and amounts of donated foods from distributing or recipient agency storage facilities used in the situation of distress, utilizing form FNS-292A, *Report of Commodity Distribution for Disaster Relief,* which must be submitted electronically, within 45 days from the termination of assistance. This form must also be used to request replacement of donated foods, in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section. The distributing agency must maintain records of reports and other information relating to situations of distress.

(g) *Replacement of donated foods.* FNS will replace donated foods used in a situation of distress only to the extent that funds to provide for such replacement are available. The distributing agency must submit to FNS a request for replacement of such foods, utilizing form FNS-292A, *Report of Commodity Distribution for Disaster Relief,* which must be submitted electronically, within 45 days from the termination of assistance. The distributing agency may request replacement of foods used from inventories in which donated foods are commingled with other foods (*i.e.,* at storage facilities of recipient agencies utilizing single inventory management), if the recipient agency received donated foods of the same type as the foods used during the year preceding the onset of the situation of distress. Subject to the availability of funds, FNS will replace such foods in the amounts used, or in the amount of like donated foods received during the preceding year, whichever is less.

(h) *Reimbursement of transportation costs.* In order to receive reimbursement for any costs incurred in transporting donated foods within the State, or from one State to another, for use in a situation of distress, the distributing agency must submit a public voucher to FNS with documentation of such costs. FNS will review the request and reimburse the distributing agency to the extent that funds are available.

[81 FR 23113, Apr. 19, 2016]