cfr/title-48-Federal-Acquisition-Regulations-System/chapter-1-Federal-Acquisition-Regulation/subchapter-F-Special-Categories-Contracting/part-39-Acquisition-Information-Technology/subpart-39.1-General/section-39.101.md, before:

##### 39.101 Policy. #####

(a)(1) In acquiring information technology, agencies shall identify their requirements pursuant to -

(i) OMB Circular A-130, including consideration of security of resources, protection of privacy, national security and emergency preparedness, accommodations for individuals with disabilities, and energy efficiency;

(ii) Electronic Product Environmental Assessment Tool (EPEAT®) standards (see 23.704);

(iii) Policies to enable power management, double-sided printing, and other energy-efficient or environmentally preferable features on all agency electronic products; and

(iv) Best management practices for energy-efficient management of servers and Federal data centers.

(2) When developing an acquisition strategy, contracting officers should consider the rapidly changing nature of information technology through market research (see Part 10) and the application of technology refreshment techniques.

(b) Agencies must follow OMB Circular A-127, Financial Management Systems, when acquiring financial management systems. Agencies may acquire only core financial management software certified by the Joint Financial Management Improvement Program.

(c) In acquiring information technology, agencies shall include the appropriate information technology security policies and requirements, including use of common security configurations available from the National Institute of Standards and Technology's Web site at *http://checklists.nist.gov.* Agency contracting officers should consult with the requiring official to ensure the appropriate standards are incorporated.

(d) When acquiring information technology using Internet Protocol, agencies must include the appropriate Internet Protocol compliance requirements in accordance with 11.002(g).

(e) Contracting officers shall not purchase any hardware, software, or services developed or provided by Kaspersky Lab that the Government will use on or after October 1, 2018. (See 4.2002.)

[61 FR 41470, Aug. 8, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 32748, June 17, 1999; 64 FR 72446, Dec. 27, 1999; 70 FR 57452, Sept. 30, 2005; 72 FR 73217, Dec. 26, 2007; 73 FR 10968, Feb. 28, 2008; 74 FR 65607, Dec. 10, 2009; 76 FR 31401, May 31, 2011; 79 FR 70344, Nov. 25, 2014; 80 FR 26427, May 7, 2015; 83 FR 28144, June 15, 2018]

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2019-08-13 issue
Title: 12: Banks and Banking - Sections changed: 1
Title: 17: Commodity and Securities Exchanges - Sections changed: 5
Title: 48: Federal Acquisition Regulations System - Sections changed: 19
Title: 26: Internal Revenue - Sections changed: 10
Title: 33: Navigation and Navigable Waters - Sections changed: 1
Title: 40: Protection of Environment - Sections changed: 1
Title: 50: Wildlife and Fisheries - Sections changed: 9

cfr/title-48-Federal-Acquisition-Regulations-System/chapter-1-Federal-Acquisition-Regulation/subchapter-F-Special-Categories-Contracting/part-39-Acquisition-Information-Technology/subpart-39.1-General/section-39.101.md, after:

##### 39.101 Policy. #####

(a)(1) In acquiring information technology, agencies shall identify their requirements pursuant to -

(i) OMB Circular A-130, including consideration of security of resources, protection of privacy, national security and emergency preparedness, accommodations for individuals with disabilities, and energy efficiency;

(ii) Electronic Product Environmental Assessment Tool (EPEAT®) standards (see 23.704);

(iii) Policies to enable power management, double-sided printing, and other energy-efficient or environmentally preferable features on all agency electronic products; and

(iv) Best management practices for energy-efficient management of servers and Federal data centers.

(2) When developing an acquisition strategy, contracting officers should consider the rapidly changing nature of information technology through market research (see Part 10) and the application of technology refreshment techniques.

(b) Agencies must follow OMB Circular A-127, Financial Management Systems, when acquiring financial management systems. Agencies may acquire only core financial management software certified by the Joint Financial Management Improvement Program.

(c) In acquiring information technology, agencies shall include the appropriate information technology security policies and requirements, including use of common security configurations available from the National Institute of Standards and Technology's Web site at *http://checklists.nist.gov.* Agency contracting officers should consult with the requiring official to ensure the appropriate standards are incorporated.

(d) When acquiring information technology using Internet Protocol, agencies must include the appropriate Internet Protocol compliance requirements in accordance with 11.002(g).

(e) Contracting officers shall not purchase any hardware, software, or services developed or provided by Kaspersky Lab that the Government will use on or after October 1, 2018. (See 4.2002.)

(f) On or after August 13, 2019, contracting officers shall not procure or obtain, or extend or renew a contract to procure or obtain, any equipment, system, or service that uses covered telecommunications equipment or services as a substantial or essential component of any system, or as critical technology as part of any system on or after August 13, 2019, unless an exception applies or a waiver is granted. (See subpart 4.21.)

[61 FR 41470, Aug. 8, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 32748, June 17, 1999; 64 FR 72446, Dec. 27, 1999; 70 FR 57452, Sept. 30, 2005; 72 FR 73217, Dec. 26, 2007; 73 FR 10968, Feb. 28, 2008; 74 FR 65607, Dec. 10, 2009; 76 FR 31401, May 31, 2011; 79 FR 70344, Nov. 25, 2014; 80 FR 26427, May 7, 2015; 83 FR 28144, June 15, 2018; 84 FR 40221, Aug. 13, 2019]
