##### ยง 1.223 Petitions to intervene. #####

Link to an amendment published at 85 FR 63175, Oct. 6, 2020.

(a) Where, in cases involving applications for construction permits and station licenses, or modifications or renewals thereof, the Commission has failed to notify and name as a party to the hearing any person who qualifies as a party in interest, such person may acquire the status of a party by filing, under oath and not more than 30 days after the publication in the Federal Register of the hearing issues or any substantial amendment thereto, a petition for intervention showing the basis of its interest. Where such person's interest is based upon a claim that a grant of the application would cause objectionable interference under applicable provisions of this chapter to such person as a licensee or permittee of an existing or authorized station, the petition to intervene must be accompanied by an affidavit of a qualified radio engineer which shall show, either by following the procedures prescribed in this chapter for determining interference in the absence of measurements or by actual measurements made in accordance with the methods prescribed in this chapter, the extent of such interference. Where the person's status as a party in interest is established, the petition to intervene will be granted.

(b) Any other person desiring to participate as a party in any hearing may file a petition for leave to intervene not later than 30 days after the publication in the Federal Register of the full text or a summary of the order designating an application for hearing or any substantial amendment thereto. The petition must set forth the interest of petitioner in the proceedings, must show how such petitioner's participation will assist the Commission in the determination of the issues in question, must set forth any proposed issues in addition to those already designated for hearing, and must be accompanied by the affidavit of a person with knowledge as to the facts set forth in the petition. The presiding officer, in his discretion, may grant or deny such petition or may permit intervention by such persons limited to a particular stage of the proceeding.

(c) Any person desiring to file a petition for leave to intervene later than 30 days after the publication in the Federal Register of the full text or a summary of the order designating an application for hearing or any substantial amendment thereto shall set forth the interest of petitioner in the proceeding, show how such petitioner's participation will assist the Commission in the determination of the issues in question, must set forth any proposed issues in addition to those already designated for hearing, and must set forth reasons why it was not possible to file a petition within the time prescribed by paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. Such petition shall be accompanied by the affidavit of a person with knowledge of the facts set forth in the petition, and where petitioner claims that a grant of the application would cause objectionable interference under applicable provisions of this chapter, the petition to intervene must be accompanied by the affidavit of a qualified radio engineer showing the extent of such alleged interference according to the methods prescribed in paragraph (a) of this section. If, in the opinion of the presiding officer, good cause is shown for the delay in filing, he may in his discretion grant such petition or may permit intervention limited to particular issues or to a particular stage of the proceeding.

(Sec. 309, 48 Stat. 1085, as amended; 47 U.S.C. 309)[28 FR 12425, Nov. 22, 1963, as amended at 29 FR 7821, June 19, 1964; 41 FR 14872, Apr. 8, 1976; 51 FR 19347, May 29, 1986]