##### ยง 0.17 Bureau of Consumer Protection. #####

The Bureau investigates unfair or deceptive acts or practices under section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act as well as potential violations of numerous special statutes which the Commission is charged with enforcing. It prosecutes before the agency's administrative law judges alleged violations of law after issuance of a complaint by the Commission or obtains through negotiation consented-to orders, which must be accepted and issued by the Commission. In consultation with the General Counsel, the Bureau may also seek injunctive or other equitable relief under section 13(b) of the Federal Trade Commission Act. The Bureau participates in trade regulation rulemaking proceedings under section 18(a)(1)(B) of the Federal Trade Commission Act and other rulemaking proceedings under statutory authority. It investigates compliance with final orders and trade regulation rules and seeks civil penalties or consumer redress for their violation, as well as injunctive and other equitable relief under section 13(b) of the Act. In addition, the Bureau seeks to educate both consumers and the business community about the laws it enforces, and to assist and cooperate with other state, local, foreign, and international agencies and organizations in consumer protection enforcement and regulatory matters. The Bureau also maintains the agency's public reference facilities, where the public may inspect and copy a current index of opinions, orders, statements of policy and interpretations, staff manuals and instructions that affect any member of the public, and other public records of the Commission.

[65 FR 78409, Dec. 15, 2000]