cfr/title-46-Shipping/chapter-I-Coast-Guard-Department-Homeland-Security/subchapter-Q-Equipment-Construction-Materials-Specifications-Approval/part-162-Engineering-Equipment/subpart-162.017-General-Provisions-Valves-PressureVacuum-Relief-Tank-Vessels/section-162.017-1.md, before:

##### § 162.017-1 Preemptive effect; incorporation by reference. #####

Link to an amendment published at 89 FR 76704, Sept. 18, 2024.

(a) The regulations in this part have preemptive effect over State or local regulations in the same field.

(b) Certain material is incorporated by reference into this subchapter with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. To enforce any edition other than that specified in this section, the Coast Guard must publish notice of change in the Federal Register and the material must be available to the public. All approved material is available for inspection at the Coast Guard Headquarters. Contact Commandant (CG-ENG), Attn: Office of Design and Engineering Systems, U.S. Coast Guard Stop 7509, 2703 Martin Luther King Jr. Avenue, SE., Washington, DC 20593-7509. The material is also available from the source listed in paragraph (c) of this section. It is also available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030 or go to *http://www.archives.gov/federal\_register/code\_of\_federal\_regulations/ibr\_locations.html.*

(c) International Organization for Standardization (ISO), Case postal 56, CH-1211 Geneva 20, Switzerland, telephone + 41 22 749 01 11, *www.iso.org.*

(1) ISO 15364, Ships and Marine Technology—Pressure/Vacuum Valves for Cargo Tanks, First Edition (Sep. 1, 2000), (“ISO 15364”), IBR approved for § 162.017-3.

[USCG-2006-24797, 77 FR 33886, June 7, 2012, as amended by USCG-2013-0671, 78 FR 60160, Sept. 30, 2013]

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2024-10-18 issue
Title: 48: Federal Acquisition Regulations System - Sections changed: 1
Title: 21: Food and Drugs - Sections changed: 1
Title: 31: Money and Finance: Treasury - Sections changed: 1
Title: 37: Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights - Sections changed: 2
Title: 40: Protection of Environment - Sections changed: 3
Title: 41: Public Contracts and Property Management - Sections changed: 1
Title: 46: Shipping - Sections changed: 86
Title: 47: Telecommunication - Sections changed: 10
Title: 49: Transportation - Sections changed: 2
Title: 50: Wildlife and Fisheries - Sections changed: 2

cfr/title-46-Shipping/chapter-I-Coast-Guard-Department-Homeland-Security/subchapter-Q-Equipment-Construction-Materials-Specifications-Approval/part-162-Engineering-Equipment/subpart-162.017-General-Provisions-Valves-PressureVacuum-Relief-Tank-Vessels/section-162.017-1.md, after:

##### § 162.017-1 Incorporation by reference. #####

Certain material is incorporated by reference into this part with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. All approved incorporation by reference (IBR) material is available for inspection at the Coast Guard and at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). Contact Coast Guard at: Commandant (CG-ENG-4), U.S. Coast Guard Stop 7509, 2703 Martin Luther King Jr. Avenue SE, Washington, DC 20593-7509; email *typeapproval@uscg.mil* or visit *www.dco.uscg.mil/CG-ENG-4/.* For information on the availability of this material at NARA, visit *www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html* or email *fr.inspection@nara.gov.* The material may be obtained from the International Organization for Standardization (ISO), ISO Central Secretariat, Chemin de Blandonnet 8. CP 401—1214 Vernier, Geneva, Switzerland; phone 41 22 749 01 11; *www.iso.org/contact-iso.html.*

(a) ISO 15364:2021(E), Ships and Marine Technology—Pressure-vacuum valves for cargo tanks and devices to prevent the passage of flame into cargo tanks, Fourth Edition, February 2021 (“ISO 15364”); IBR approved for § 162.017-3(r).

(b) [Reserved]

[USCG-2020-0519, 89 FR 76704, Sept. 18, 2024]
