cfr/title-50-Wildlife-Fisheries/chapter-I-United-States-Fish-Wildlife-Service-Department-Interior/subchapter-B-Taking-Possession-Transportation-Sale-Purchase-Barter-Exportation-Importation-Wildlife-Plants/part-17-Endangered-Threatened-Wildlife-Plants/subpart-G-Threatened-Plants/section-17.73.md, before:

##### § 17.73 Special rules—flowering plants. #####

Link to an amendment published at 88 FR 21866, Apr. 11, 2023.Link to an amendment published at 88 FR 25238, Apr. 25, 2023.Link to an amendment published at 88 FR 30057, May 10, 2023.

(a) *Graptopetalum bartramii* (Bartram's stonecrop)—(1) *Prohibitions.* The following prohibitions apply to *Graptopetalum bartramii,* except as provided under paragraph (a)(2) of this section:

(i) *Import or export.* It is unlawful to import or to export any *Graptopetalum bartramii.* Any shipment in transit through the United States is an importation and an exportation, whether or not it has entered the country for customs purposes.

(ii) *Remove and reduce to possession.* It is unlawful to remove and reduce to possession the species from areas under Federal jurisdiction; maliciously damage or destroy the species on any such area; or remove, cut, dig up, or damage or destroy the species on any other area in knowing violation of any law or regulation of any State or in the course of any violation of a State criminal trespass law.

(iii) *Interstate or foreign commerce.* It is unlawful to deliver, receive, carry, transport, or ship in interstate or foreign commerce, by any means whatsoever, and in the course of a commercial activity, any *Graptopetalum bartramii.*

(iv) *Sale or offer for sale.* (A) It is unlawful to sell or to offer for sale in interstate or foreign commerce any *Graptopetalum bartramii.*

(B) An advertisement for the sale of any *Graptopetalum bartramii* which carries a warning to the effect that no sale may be consummated until a permit has been obtained from the Service, shall not be considered an offer for sale within the meaning of this paragraph.

(v) It is unlawful to attempt to commit, solicit another to commit, or cause to be committed, any of the acts described in this paragraph (a)(1).

(2) *Exception*s *from prohibitions.* The following exceptions from prohibitions apply to *Graptopetalum bartramii:*

(i) A person may apply for a permit in accordance with 50 CFR 17.72 that authorizes an activity otherwise prohibited by this paragraph for *Graptopetalum bartramii.*

(ii)(A) Any employee or agent of the Service, any other Federal land management agency, or a State conservation agency, who is designated by that agency for such purposes, may, when acting in the course of official duties, remove and reduce to possession *Graptopetalum bartramii* from areas under Federal jurisdiction without a permit if such action is necessary to:

(*1*) Care for a damaged or diseased specimen;

(*2*) Dispose of a dead specimen; or

(*3*) Salvage a dead specimen which may be useful for scientific study.

(B) Any removal and reduction to possession pursuant to this paragraph must be reported in writing to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service within 5 days. The specimen may only be retained, disposed of, or salvaged in accordance with written directions from the Service.

(iii) Any qualified employee or agent of the Service or of a State conservation agency which is a party to a cooperative agreement with the Service in accordance with section 6(c) of the Act, who is designated by that agency for such purposes, may, when acting in the course of official duties, remove, cut, dig up, damage, or destroy *Graptopetalum bartramii* on areas under Federal jurisdiction.

(b) *Layia carnosa* (beach layia).

(1) *Prohibitions.* The following prohibitions that apply to endangered plants also apply to *Layia carnosa* (beach layia). Except as provided under paragraph (b)(2) of this section and §§ 17.4 and 17.5, it is unlawful for any person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States to commit, to attempt to commit, to solicit another to commit, or cause to be committed, any of the following acts in regard to this species:

(i) Import or export, as set forth at § 17.61(b) for endangered plants.

(ii) Remove and reduce to possession from areas under Federal jurisdiction, as set forth at § 17.61(c)(1) for endangered plants.

(iii) Maliciously damage or destroy the species on any areas under Federal jurisdiction, or remove, cut, dig up, or damage or destroy the species on any other area in knowing violation of any State law or regulation or in the course of any violation of a State criminal trespass law, as set forth at section 9(a)(2)(B) of the Act.

(iv) Interstate or foreign commerce in the course of commercial activity, as set forth at § 17.61(d) for endangered plants.

(v) Sell or offer for sale, as set forth at § 17.61(e) for endangered plants.

(2) *Exceptions from prohibitions.* The following exceptions from prohibitions apply to beach layia:

(i) The prohibitions described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section do not apply to activities conducted as authorized by a permit issued in accordance with the provisions set forth at § 17.72.

(ii) Any employee or agent of the Service or of a State conservation agency that is operating a conservation program pursuant to the terms of a cooperative agreement with the Service in accordance with section 6(c) of the Act, who is designated by that agency for such purposes, may, when acting in the course of official duties, remove and reduce to possession from areas under Federal jurisdiction members of beach layia that are covered by an approved cooperative agreement to carry out conservation programs.

(iii) You may engage in any act prohibited under paragraph (b)(1) of this section with seeds of cultivated specimens, provided that a statement that the seeds are of “cultivated origin” accompanies the seeds or their container.

(c)-(d) [Reserved]

(e) *Eugenia woodburyana* (no common name).

(1) *Prohibitions.* The following prohibitions that apply to endangered plants also apply to *Eugenia woodburyana.* Except as provided under paragraph (e)(2) of this section, it is unlawful for any person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States to commit, to attempt to commit, to solicit another to commit, or cause to be committed, any of the following acts in regard to this species:

(i) Import or export, as set forth at § 17.61(b) for endangered plants.

(ii) Remove and reduce to possession the species from areas under Federal jurisdiction, as set forth at § 17.61(c)(1) for endangered plants.

(iii) Maliciously damage or destroy the species on any areas under Federal jurisdiction, or remove, cut, dig up, or damage or destroy the species on any other area in knowing violation of any law or regulation of the Territory or in the course of any violation of a Territorial criminal trespass law, as set forth at section 9(a)(2)(B) of the Act.

(iv) Engage in interstate or foreign commerce in the course of commercial activity, as set forth at § 17.61(d) for endangered plants.

(v) Sell or offer for sale in interstate or foreign commerce, as set forth at § 17.61(e) for endangered plants.

(2) *Exception*s *from prohibitions.* The following exceptions from prohibitions apply to *Eugenia woodburyana:*

(i) The prohibitions described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section do not apply to activities conducted as authorized by a permit issued in accordance with the provisions set forth at § 17.72.

(ii) Any employee or agent of the Service or of a State or Territorial conservation agency that is operating a conservation program pursuant to the terms of a cooperative agreement with the Service in accordance with section 6(c) of the Act, who is designated by that agency for such purposes, may, when acting in the course of official duties, remove and reduce to possession from areas under Federal jurisdiction members of *Eugenia woodburyana* that are covered by an approved cooperative agreement to carry out conservation programs.

(iii) Individuals may engage in any act prohibited under paragraph (e)(1) of this section with seeds of cultivated specimens, provided that a statement that the seeds are of “cultivated origin” accompanies the seeds or their container.

(f) *Echinacea laevigata* (smooth coneflower)—(1) *Prohibitions.* The following prohibitions that apply to endangered plants also apply to *Echinacea laevigata.* Except as provided under paragraph (f)(2) of this section, it is unlawful for any person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States to commit, to attempt to commit, to solicit another to commit, or cause to be committed, any of the following acts in regard to this species:

(i) Import or export, as set forth at § 17.61(b) for endangered plants.

(ii) Remove and reduce to possession from areas under Federal jurisdiction, as set forth at § 17.61(c)(1) for endangered plants.

(iii) Maliciously damage or destroy the species on any areas under Federal jurisdiction, or remove, cut, dig up, or damage or destroy the species on any other area in knowing violation of any State law or regulation or in the course of any violation of a State criminal trespass law, as set forth at section 9(a)(2)(B) of the Act.

(iv) Engage in interstate or foreign commerce in the course of commercial activity, as set forth at § 17.61(d) for endangered plants.

(v) Sell or offer for sale, as set forth at § 17.61(e) for endangered plants.

(2) *Exceptions from prohibitions.* In regard to *Echinacea laevigata,* you may:

(i) Conduct activities, including activities prohibited under paragraph (f)(1) of this section, if they are authorized by a permit issued in accordance with the provisions set forth at § 17.72.

(ii) Conduct activities authorized by a permit issued under § 17.62 prior to August 5, 2022 for the duration of the permit.

(iii) Remove and reduce to possession from areas under Federal jurisdiction, as set forth at § 17.61(c)(2) through (4) for endangered plants and § 17.71(b).

(iv) Engage in any act prohibited under paragraph (f)(1) of this section with seeds of cultivated specimens, provided that a statement that the seeds are of “cultivated origin” accompanies the seeds or their container.

(g) *Ottoschulzia rhodoxylon* (palo de rosa)—(1) *Prohibitions.* The following prohibitions that apply to endangered plants also apply to *Ottoschulzia rhodoxylon* (palo de rosa). Except as provided under paragraph (g)(2) of this section, it is unlawful for any person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States to commit, to attempt to commit, to solicit another to commit, or cause to be committed, any of the following acts in regard to this species:

(i) Import or export, as set forth at § 17.61(b) for endangered plants.

(ii) Remove and reduce to possession the species from areas under Federal jurisdiction; maliciously damage or destroy the species on any such area; or remove, cut, dig up, or damage or destroy the species on any other area in knowing violation of any law or regulation of any State or in the course of any violation of a State criminal trespass law.

(iii) Interstate or foreign commerce in the course of commercial activity, as set forth at § 17.61(d) for endangered plants.

(iv) Sale or offer for sale, as set forth at § 17.61(e) for endangered plants.

(2) *Exceptions from prohibitions.* In regard to *Ottoschulzia rhodoxylon* (palo de rosa), you may:

(i) Conduct activities, including activities prohibited under paragraph (f)(1) of this section, if they are authorized by a permit issued in accordance with the provisions set forth at § 17.72.

(ii) Remove and reduce to possession from areas under Federal jurisdiction, as set forth at § 17.71(b).

(iii) Engage in any act prohibited under paragraph (g)(1) of this section with seeds of cultivated specimens, provided that a statement that the seeds are of “cultivated origin” accompanies the seeds or their container.

[86 FR 48568, Aug. 31, 2021, as amended at 87 FR 18738, Mar. 31, 2022; 87 FR 40114, July 6, 2022; 87 FR 66607, Nov. 4, 2022; 87 FR 74012, Dec. 2, 2022]

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2023-05-11 issue
Title: 12: Banks and Banking - Sections changed: 7
Title: 13: Business Credit and Assistance - Sections changed: 6
Title: 19: Customs Duties - Sections changed: 3
Title: 10: Energy - Sections changed: 14
Title: 21: Food and Drugs - Sections changed: 7
Title: 24: Housing and Urban Development - Sections changed: 46
Title: 26: Internal Revenue - Sections changed: 2
Title: 33: Navigation and Navigable Waters - Sections changed: 6
Title: 40: Protection of Environment - Sections changed: 1
Title: 42: Public Health - Sections changed: 2
Title: 47: Telecommunication - Sections changed: 1
Title: 50: Wildlife and Fisheries - Sections changed: 5

cfr/title-50-Wildlife-Fisheries/chapter-I-United-States-Fish-Wildlife-Service-Department-Interior/subchapter-B-Taking-Possession-Transportation-Sale-Purchase-Barter-Exportation-Importation-Wildlife-Plants/part-17-Endangered-Threatened-Wildlife-Plants/subpart-G-Threatened-Plants/section-17.73.md, after:

##### § 17.73 Special rules—flowering plants. #####

Link to an amendment published at 88 FR 25238, Apr. 25, 2023.Link to an amendment published at 88 FR 30057, May 10, 2023.

(a) *Graptopetalum bartramii* (Bartram's stonecrop)—(1) *Prohibitions.* The following prohibitions apply to *Graptopetalum bartramii,* except as provided under paragraph (a)(2) of this section:

(i) *Import or export.* It is unlawful to import or to export any *Graptopetalum bartramii.* Any shipment in transit through the United States is an importation and an exportation, whether or not it has entered the country for customs purposes.

(ii) *Remove and reduce to possession.* It is unlawful to remove and reduce to possession the species from areas under Federal jurisdiction; maliciously damage or destroy the species on any such area; or remove, cut, dig up, or damage or destroy the species on any other area in knowing violation of any law or regulation of any State or in the course of any violation of a State criminal trespass law.

(iii) *Interstate or foreign commerce.* It is unlawful to deliver, receive, carry, transport, or ship in interstate or foreign commerce, by any means whatsoever, and in the course of a commercial activity, any *Graptopetalum bartramii.*

(iv) *Sale or offer for sale.* (A) It is unlawful to sell or to offer for sale in interstate or foreign commerce any *Graptopetalum bartramii.*

(B) An advertisement for the sale of any *Graptopetalum bartramii* which carries a warning to the effect that no sale may be consummated until a permit has been obtained from the Service, shall not be considered an offer for sale within the meaning of this paragraph.

(v) It is unlawful to attempt to commit, solicit another to commit, or cause to be committed, any of the acts described in this paragraph (a)(1).

(2) *Exception*s *from prohibitions.* The following exceptions from prohibitions apply to *Graptopetalum bartramii:*

(i) A person may apply for a permit in accordance with 50 CFR 17.72 that authorizes an activity otherwise prohibited by this paragraph for *Graptopetalum bartramii.*

(ii)(A) Any employee or agent of the Service, any other Federal land management agency, or a State conservation agency, who is designated by that agency for such purposes, may, when acting in the course of official duties, remove and reduce to possession *Graptopetalum bartramii* from areas under Federal jurisdiction without a permit if such action is necessary to:

(*1*) Care for a damaged or diseased specimen;

(*2*) Dispose of a dead specimen; or

(*3*) Salvage a dead specimen which may be useful for scientific study.

(B) Any removal and reduction to possession pursuant to this paragraph must be reported in writing to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service within 5 days. The specimen may only be retained, disposed of, or salvaged in accordance with written directions from the Service.

(iii) Any qualified employee or agent of the Service or of a State conservation agency which is a party to a cooperative agreement with the Service in accordance with section 6(c) of the Act, who is designated by that agency for such purposes, may, when acting in the course of official duties, remove, cut, dig up, damage, or destroy *Graptopetalum bartramii* on areas under Federal jurisdiction.

(b) *Layia carnosa* (beach layia).

(1) *Prohibitions.* The following prohibitions that apply to endangered plants also apply to *Layia carnosa* (beach layia). Except as provided under paragraph (b)(2) of this section and §§ 17.4 and 17.5, it is unlawful for any person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States to commit, to attempt to commit, to solicit another to commit, or cause to be committed, any of the following acts in regard to this species:

(i) Import or export, as set forth at § 17.61(b) for endangered plants.

(ii) Remove and reduce to possession from areas under Federal jurisdiction, as set forth at § 17.61(c)(1) for endangered plants.

(iii) Maliciously damage or destroy the species on any areas under Federal jurisdiction, or remove, cut, dig up, or damage or destroy the species on any other area in knowing violation of any State law or regulation or in the course of any violation of a State criminal trespass law, as set forth at section 9(a)(2)(B) of the Act.

(iv) Interstate or foreign commerce in the course of commercial activity, as set forth at § 17.61(d) for endangered plants.

(v) Sell or offer for sale, as set forth at § 17.61(e) for endangered plants.

(2) *Exceptions from prohibitions.* The following exceptions from prohibitions apply to beach layia:

(i) The prohibitions described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section do not apply to activities conducted as authorized by a permit issued in accordance with the provisions set forth at § 17.72.

(ii) Any employee or agent of the Service or of a State conservation agency that is operating a conservation program pursuant to the terms of a cooperative agreement with the Service in accordance with section 6(c) of the Act, who is designated by that agency for such purposes, may, when acting in the course of official duties, remove and reduce to possession from areas under Federal jurisdiction members of beach layia that are covered by an approved cooperative agreement to carry out conservation programs.

(iii) You may engage in any act prohibited under paragraph (b)(1) of this section with seeds of cultivated specimens, provided that a statement that the seeds are of “cultivated origin” accompanies the seeds or their container.

(c)-(d) [Reserved]

(e) *Eugenia woodburyana* (no common name).

(1) *Prohibitions.* The following prohibitions that apply to endangered plants also apply to *Eugenia woodburyana.* Except as provided under paragraph (e)(2) of this section, it is unlawful for any person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States to commit, to attempt to commit, to solicit another to commit, or cause to be committed, any of the following acts in regard to this species:

(i) Import or export, as set forth at § 17.61(b) for endangered plants.

(ii) Remove and reduce to possession the species from areas under Federal jurisdiction, as set forth at § 17.61(c)(1) for endangered plants.

(iii) Maliciously damage or destroy the species on any areas under Federal jurisdiction, or remove, cut, dig up, or damage or destroy the species on any other area in knowing violation of any law or regulation of the Territory or in the course of any violation of a Territorial criminal trespass law, as set forth at section 9(a)(2)(B) of the Act.

(iv) Engage in interstate or foreign commerce in the course of commercial activity, as set forth at § 17.61(d) for endangered plants.

(v) Sell or offer for sale in interstate or foreign commerce, as set forth at § 17.61(e) for endangered plants.

(2) *Exception*s *from prohibitions.* The following exceptions from prohibitions apply to *Eugenia woodburyana:*

(i) The prohibitions described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section do not apply to activities conducted as authorized by a permit issued in accordance with the provisions set forth at § 17.72.

(ii) Any employee or agent of the Service or of a State or Territorial conservation agency that is operating a conservation program pursuant to the terms of a cooperative agreement with the Service in accordance with section 6(c) of the Act, who is designated by that agency for such purposes, may, when acting in the course of official duties, remove and reduce to possession from areas under Federal jurisdiction members of *Eugenia woodburyana* that are covered by an approved cooperative agreement to carry out conservation programs.

(iii) Individuals may engage in any act prohibited under paragraph (e)(1) of this section with seeds of cultivated specimens, provided that a statement that the seeds are of “cultivated origin” accompanies the seeds or their container.

(f) *Echinacea laevigata* (smooth coneflower)—(1) *Prohibitions.* The following prohibitions that apply to endangered plants also apply to *Echinacea laevigata.* Except as provided under paragraph (f)(2) of this section, it is unlawful for any person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States to commit, to attempt to commit, to solicit another to commit, or cause to be committed, any of the following acts in regard to this species:

(i) Import or export, as set forth at § 17.61(b) for endangered plants.

(ii) Remove and reduce to possession from areas under Federal jurisdiction, as set forth at § 17.61(c)(1) for endangered plants.

(iii) Maliciously damage or destroy the species on any areas under Federal jurisdiction, or remove, cut, dig up, or damage or destroy the species on any other area in knowing violation of any State law or regulation or in the course of any violation of a State criminal trespass law, as set forth at section 9(a)(2)(B) of the Act.

(iv) Engage in interstate or foreign commerce in the course of commercial activity, as set forth at § 17.61(d) for endangered plants.

(v) Sell or offer for sale, as set forth at § 17.61(e) for endangered plants.

(2) *Exceptions from prohibitions.* In regard to *Echinacea laevigata,* you may:

(i) Conduct activities, including activities prohibited under paragraph (f)(1) of this section, if they are authorized by a permit issued in accordance with the provisions set forth at § 17.72.

(ii) Conduct activities authorized by a permit issued under § 17.62 prior to August 5, 2022 for the duration of the permit.

(iii) Remove and reduce to possession from areas under Federal jurisdiction, as set forth at § 17.61(c)(2) through (4) for endangered plants and § 17.71(b).

(iv) Engage in any act prohibited under paragraph (f)(1) of this section with seeds of cultivated specimens, provided that a statement that the seeds are of “cultivated origin” accompanies the seeds or their container.

(g) *Ottoschulzia rhodoxylon* (palo de rosa)—(1) *Prohibitions.* The following prohibitions that apply to endangered plants also apply to *Ottoschulzia rhodoxylon* (palo de rosa). Except as provided under paragraph (g)(2) of this section, it is unlawful for any person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States to commit, to attempt to commit, to solicit another to commit, or cause to be committed, any of the following acts in regard to this species:

(i) Import or export, as set forth at § 17.61(b) for endangered plants.

(ii) Remove and reduce to possession the species from areas under Federal jurisdiction; maliciously damage or destroy the species on any such area; or remove, cut, dig up, or damage or destroy the species on any other area in knowing violation of any law or regulation of any State or in the course of any violation of a State criminal trespass law.

(iii) Interstate or foreign commerce in the course of commercial activity, as set forth at § 17.61(d) for endangered plants.

(iv) Sale or offer for sale, as set forth at § 17.61(e) for endangered plants.

(2) *Exceptions from prohibitions.* In regard to *Ottoschulzia rhodoxylon* (palo de rosa), you may:

(i) Conduct activities, including activities prohibited under paragraph (f)(1) of this section, if they are authorized by a permit issued in accordance with the provisions set forth at § 17.72.

(ii) Remove and reduce to possession from areas under Federal jurisdiction, as set forth at § 17.71(b).

(iii) Engage in any act prohibited under paragraph (g)(1) of this section with seeds of cultivated specimens, provided that a statement that the seeds are of “cultivated origin” accompanies the seeds or their container.

(h) *Streptanthus bracteatus* (bracted twistflower).

(1) *Prohibitions.* The following prohibitions that apply to endangered plants also apply to the bracted twistflower. Except as provided under paragraph (h)(2) of this section, it is unlawful for any person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States to commit, to attempt to commit, to solicit another to commit, or cause to be committed, any of the following acts in regard to this species:

(i) Import or export, as set forth at § 17.61(b) for endangered plants.

(ii) Remove and reduce to possession the species from areas under Federal jurisdiction; maliciously damage or destroy the species on any such area; or remove, cut, dig up, or damage or destroy the species on any other area in knowing violation of any law or regulation of any State or in the course of any violation of a State criminal trespass law.

(iii) Interstate or foreign commerce in the course of commercial activity, as set forth at § 17.61(d) for endangered plants.

(iv) Sale or offer for sale, as set forth at § 17.61(e) for endangered plants.

(2) *Exceptions from prohibitions.* In regard to this species:

(i) You may conduct activities as authorized by permit under § 17.72.

(ii) Any employee or agent of the Service or of a State conservation agency that is operating a conservation program pursuant to the terms of a cooperative agreement with the Service in accordance with section 6(c) of the Act, who is designated by that agency for such purposes, may, when acting in the course of official duties, remove and reduce to possession from areas under Federal jurisdiction members of bracted twistflower that are covered by an approved cooperative agreement to carry out conservation programs.

(iii) You may engage in any act prohibited under paragraph (h)(1) of this section with seeds of cultivated specimens, provided that a statement that the seeds are of “cultivated origin” accompanies the seeds or their container.

[86 FR 48568, Aug. 31, 2021, as amended at 87 FR 18738, Mar. 31, 2022; 87 FR 40114, July 6, 2022; 87 FR 66607, Nov. 4, 2022; 87 FR 74012, Dec. 2, 2022; 88 FR 21866, Apr. 11, 2023]
