##### ยง 1115.4 Procedures for requests for access to or disclosure of records pertaining to an individual. #####

(a) Any person may request review of records pertaining to him by appearing at the National Endowment for the Arts, Room 1338, 2401 E Street, NW., Washington, DC 20506, or the National Endowment for the Humanities, Room 1000, 806 15th Street, NW., Washington, DC 20506 on work days between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 5:30 p.m. or by writing to the Office of the General Counsel, National Endowment for the Arts, or National Endowment for the Humanities, Washington, DC 20506. (See paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section for identification requirements.) The request should specifically identify the systems or records involved. The Foundation will strive either to make the record available within 15 working days of the request or to inform the requestor of the need for additional identification or the tendering of fees (as specified in paragraph (d) of this section) within 15 working days.

(b) In the case of persons making requests by appearing at the Foundation, the amount of personal identification required will of necessity vary with the sensitivity of the record involved. Except as indicated below, reasonable identification such as employment identification cards, drivers licenses, and credit cards will normally be accepted as sufficient evidence of identity in the absence of any indications to the contrary. Records in the following systems of records, however, are considered to contain relatively sensitive and/or detailed personal information -

GRANT APPLICATIONS - NEA.GRANT APPLICATIONS - NEH.GRANTS TO INDIVIDUALS - NEA.GRANTS TO INDIVIDUALS AND INSTITUTIONS - NEH.EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY CASE FILE - NFAH NEA/NEH.EMPLOYEE PAYROLL - NFAH.PERSONNEL RECORDS - NFAH.Accordingly, with respect to requests for records in these systems the Foundation reserves the rights to require sufficient identification to identify positively the individual making the request. This might involve independent verification by the Foundation as by phone calls to determine whether an individual has made a request, personal identification by Foundation employees who know the individual, or such other means as are considered appropriate under the circumstances.

(c) A written request will be honored only if it contains the following certification before a duly commissioned notary public of any state or territory (or similar official if the request is made outside the United States):

I,\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_(Printed name), do hereby certify that I am the individual about whom the record requested in this letter pertains or that I am within the class of persons authorized to act on his behalf in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552a(h).

SignatureDateIn the County of\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_State of\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_. On this \_\_day of(Name of individual)who is personally known to me, did appear before me and sign the above certificate.SignatureDate(s) My Commission expiresHowever, where the record requested is contained in any of the systems of records listed in paragraph (b) of this section, the Foundation reserves the right to require additional identification and/or to independently verify to its satisfaction, the identity of the requestor.

(d) Charges for copies of records will be at the rate of $0.10 per photography of each page. Where records are not susceptible to photo-copying, e.g., punch cards, magnetic tapes or oversize materials, the amount charged will be actual cost as determined on a case-by-case basis. Only one copy of each record requested will be supplied. No charge will be made unless the charge as computed above would exceed $3.00 for each request or related series of requests. If a fee in excess of $25.00 would be required, the requestor shall be notified and the fee must be tendered before the records will be copied.