##### ยง 210.9-06 Condensed financial information of registrant. #####

Link to an amendment published at 83 FR 50205, Oct. 4, 2018.

The information prescribed by ยง 210.12-04 shall be presented in a note to the financial statements when the restricted net assets (ยง 210.4-08(e)(3)) of consolidated subsidiaries exceed 25 percent of consolidated net assets as of the end of the most recently completed fiscal year. The investment in and indebtedness of and to bank subsidiaries shall be stated separately in the condensed balance sheet from amounts for other subsidiaries; the amount of cash dividends paid to the registrant for each of the last three years by bank subsidiaries shall be stated separately in the condensed income statement from amounts for other subsidiaries. For purposes of the above test, restricted net assets of consolidated subsidiaries shall mean that amount of the registrant's proportionate share of net assets of consolidated subsidiaries (after intercompany eliminations) which as of the end of the most recent fiscal year may not be transferred to the parent company by subsidiaries in the form of loans, advances or cash dividends without the consent of a third party (*i.e.*, lender, regulatory agency, foreign government, etc.). Where restrictions on the amount of funds which may be loaned or advanced differ from the amount restricted as to transfer in the form of cash dividends, the amount least restrictive to the subsidiary shall be used. Redeemable preferred stocks (ยง 210.5-02.27) and noncontrolling interests shall be deducted in computing net assets for purposes of this test.

[48 FR 11107, Mar. 16, 1983, as amended at 74 FR 18616, Apr. 23, 2009]