##### ยง 1.503(e)-4 Disallowance of charitable deductions for certain gifts made before January 1, 1970. #####

Paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section shall apply only to gifts or contributions made before January 1, 1970, to an organization described in section 501(c)(3). For rules relating to the denial of deductions with respect to gifts or contributions made after December 31, 1969, see ยง 1.503(c)-1(d).

(a) No gift or contribution which would otherwise be allowable as a charitable or other deductions under section 170, 642(c), or 545(b)(2) shall be allowed as a deduction if made to an organization described in section 501(c)(3) which at the time the gift or contribution is made is not exempt under section 501(a) by reason of the provisions of section 503.

(b) If an organization which is described in section 501(c)(3) is not exempt because it engaged in a prohibited transaction involving a substantial part of its income of corpus with the purpose of diverting its income or corpus from its exempt purposes, and if the organization receives a gift or contribution during, or prior to, its taxable year in which such prohibited transaction occurred, then a deduction by the donor with respect to the gift or contribution shall not be disallowed under section 503(b) unless the donor (or any member of his family if the donor is an individual) is a party to such prohibited transaction. For the purpose of the preceding sentence *family* is defined in section 267(c)(4) and includes brothers and sisters, whether by whole or half blood, spouse, ancestors, and lineal descendants. See the regulations under section 267(c).

(c) The application of ยง 1.503(e)-4 may be illustrated by the following example:

Example.In 1954, Corporation M, which files its income tax returns on the calendar year basis, creates a foundation purportedly for charitable purposes and deducts from its gross income for that year the amount of the gift to the foundation. Corporation M makes additional gifts to this foundation in 1955, 1956, and 1957, and takes charitable deductions for such years. B, an individual, also contributes to the foundation in 1955, 1956, and 1957, and takes charitable deductions for such years. In 1955, the foundation commences purposely to divert its corpus to the benefit of Corporation M, and a substantial amount of such corpus is so diverted by the close of the taxable year 1956. For 1955 and subsequent taxable years, the exemption allowed the foundation as an organization described in section 501(c)(3) is denied by reason of the provisions of section 503(a). Both Corporation M and individual B would be disallowed any deduction for the contributions made during 1957 to the foundation. Moreover, the charitable deductions taken by Corporation M for contributions to the foundation in the years 1955 and 1956 would also be disallowed since Corporation M was a party to the prohibited transactions. If the facts and surrounding cuircumstances indicate that the contribution in 1954 by Corporation M was for the purpose of the prohibited transaction, then the charitable deduction for the year 1954 shall also be disallowed with respect to Corporation M, since the prohibited transaction would then have commenced with the making of such contribution and the exemption allowed the foundation would then be denied for 1954 by reason of the provisions of ยง 1.503(e)-4. B's deductions for his contributions for the years 1955 and 1956 will not be disallowed since he was not a party to the prohibited transaction.[T.D. 7428, 41 FR 34626, Aug. 16, 1976]