##### § 200.401 Application. #####

(a) *General.* These principles must be used in determining the allowable costs of work performed by the non-Federal entity under Federal awards. These principles also must be used by the non-Federal entity as a guide in the pricing of fixed-price contracts and subcontracts where costs are used in determining the appropriate price. The principles do not apply to:

(1) Arrangements under which Federal financing is in the form of loans, scholarships, fellowships, traineeships, or other fixed amounts based on such items as education allowance or published tuition rates and fees.

(2) For IHEs, capitation awards, which are awards based on case counts or number of beneficiaries according to the terms and conditions of the Federal award.

(3) Fixed amount awards. See also Subpart A - Acronyms and Definitions, §§ 200.45 Fixed amount awards and 200.201 Use of grant agreements (including fixed amount awards), cooperative agreements, and contracts.

(4) Federal awards to hospitals (see Appendix IX to Part 200 - Hospital Cost Principles).

(5) Other awards under which the non-Federal entity is not required to account to the Federal Government for actual costs incurred.

(b) *Federal Contract.* Where a Federal contract awarded to a non-Federal entity is subject to the Cost Accounting Standards (CAS), it incorporates the applicable CAS clauses, Standards, and CAS administration requirements per the 48 CFR Chapter 99 and 48 CFR part 30 (FAR Part 30). CAS applies directly to the CAS-covered contract and the Cost Accounting Standards at 48 CFR parts 9904 or 9905 takes precedence over the cost principles in this Subpart E - Cost Principles of this part with respect to the allocation of costs. When a contract with a non-Federal entity is subject to full CAS coverage, the allowability of certain costs under the cost principles will be affected by the allocation provisions of the Cost Accounting Standards (e.g., CAS 414 - 48 CFR 9904.414, Cost of Money as an Element of the Cost of Facilities Capital, and CAS 417 - 48 CFR 9904.417, Cost of Money as an Element of the Cost of Capital Assets Under Construction), apply rather the allowability provisions of § 200.449 Interest. In complying with those requirements, the non-Federal entity's application of cost accounting practices for estimating, accumulating, and reporting costs for other Federal awards and other cost objectives under the CAS-covered contract still must be consistent with its cost accounting practices for the CAS-covered contracts. In all cases, only one set of accounting records needs to be maintained for the allocation of costs by the non-Federal entity.

(c) *Exemptions.* Some nonprofit organizations, because of their size and nature of operations, can be considered to be similar to for-profit entities for purpose of applicability of cost principles. Such nonprofit organizations must operate under Federal cost principles applicable to for-profit entities located at 48 CFR 31.2. A listing of these organizations is contained in Appendix VIII to Part 200 - Nonprofit Organizations Exempted From Subpart E - Cost Principles of this part. Other organizations, as approved by the cognizant agency for indirect costs, may be added from time to time.