cfr/title-12-Banks-Banking/chapter-VII-National-Credit-Union-Administration/subchapter-A-Regulations-Affecting-Credit-Unions/part-702-Capital-Adequacy/section-702.2.md, before:

##### § 702.2 Definitions. #####

Link to an amendment published at 80 FR 66706, Oct. 29, 2015.This amendment was delayed until Jan. 1, 2020, at 83 FR 55467, Nov. 6, 2018.This amendment was further delayed until Jan. 1, 2022, at 84 FR 68781, Dec. 17, 2019.

Except as provided below, the terms used in this part have the same meanings as set forth in FCUA sections 101 and 216, 12 U.S.C. 1752, 1790d.

(a) *Appropriate Regional Director* means the director of the NCUA Regional Office having jurisdiction over federally insured credit unions in the state where the affected credit union is principally located or, for credit unions with $10 billion or more in assets, the Director of the Office of National Examinations and Supervision.

(b) *Appropriate State official* means the commission, board or other supervisory authority having jurisdiction over credit unions chartered by the State which chartered the affected credit union.

(c) *Credit union* means a federally insured, natural person credit union, whether federally- or State-chartered, as defined by 12 U.S.C. 1752(6).

(d) *CUSO* means a credit union service organization as described in 12 CFR 712 *et seq.* for federally-chartered credit unions, and as defined under State law for State-chartered credit unions.

(e) *NCUSIF* means the National Credit Union Share Insurance Fund as defined by 12 U.S.C. 1783.

(f) *Net Worth* means (1) The retained earnings balance of the credit union at quarter-end as determined under generally accepted accounting principles, subject to paragraph (f)(3) of this section. Retained earnings consists of undivided earnings, regular reserves, and any other appropriations designated by management or regulatory authorities;

(2) For a low income-designated credit union, net worth also includes secondary capital accounts that are uninsured and subordinate to all other claims, including claims of creditors, shareholders and the NCUSIF; and

(3) For a credit union that acquires another credit union in a mutual combination, net worth includes the retained earnings of the acquired credit union, or of an integrated set of activities and assets, less any bargain purchase gain recognized in either case to the extent the difference between the two is greater than zero. The acquired retained earnings must be determined at the point of acquisition under generally accepted accounting principles. A mutual combination is a transaction in which a credit union acquires another credit union or acquires an integrated set of activities and assets that is capable of being conducted and managed as a credit union.

(4) The term “net worth” also includes loans to and accounts in an insured credit union established pursuant to section 208 of the Act [12 U.S.C. 1788], provided such loans and accounts:

(i) Have a remaining maturity of more than 5 years;

(ii) Are subordinate to all other claims including those of shareholders, creditors and the National Credit Union Share Insurance Fund;

(iii) Are not pledged as security on a loan to, or other obligation of, any party;

(iv) Are not insured by the National Credit Union Share Insurance Fund;

(v) Have non-cumulative dividends;

(vi) Are transferable; and

(vii) Are available to cover operating losses realized by the insured credit union that exceed its available retained earnings.

(g) *Net worth ratio* means the ratio of the net worth of the credit union (as defined in paragraph (f) of this section) to the total assets of the credit union (as defined by a measure chosen under paragraph (j) of this section).

(h) *New credit union* means a federally insured credit union which both has been in operation for less than ten (10) years and has $10,000,000 or less in total assets.

(i) *Senior executive officer* means a senior executive officer as defined by 12 CFR 701.14(b)(2).

(j) *Shares* means deposits, shares, share certificates, share drafts, or any other depository account authorized by federal or state law.

(k) *Total assets.* (1) Total assets means a credit union's total assets as measured by either -

(i) *Average quarterly balance.* The average of quarter-end balances of the current and three preceding calendar quarters; or

(ii) *Average monthly balance.* The average of month-end balances over the three calendar months of the calendar quarter; or

(iii) *Average daily balance.* The average daily balance over the calendar quarter; or

(iv) *Quarter-end balance.* The quarter-end balance of the calendar quarter as reported on the credit union's Call Report.

(2) For each quarter, a credit union must elect a measure of total assets from paragraph (k)(1) of this section to apply for all purposes under this part except §§ 702.103 through 702.108 [risk-based net worth requirement].

(l) *Weighted-average life* means the weighted-average time to the return of a dollar of principal, calculated by multiplying each portion of principal received by the time at which it is expected to be received (based on a reasonable and supportable estimate of that time), and then summing and dividing by the total amount of principal.

[65 FR 8584, Feb. 18, 2000, as amended at 65 FR 44966, July 20, 2000; 67 FR 71087, Nov. 29, 2002; 73 FR 72691, Dec. 1, 2008; 75 FR 34620, June 18, 2010; 76 FR 60367, Sept. 29, 2011; 78 FR 32544, May 31, 2013]

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2020-04-27 issue
Title: 14: Aeronautics and Space - Sections changed: 35
Title: 7: Agriculture - Sections changed: 29
Title: 12: Banks and Banking - Sections changed: 3
Title: 17: Commodity and Securities Exchanges - Sections changed: 3
Title: 18: Conservation of Power and Water Resources - Sections changed: 45
Title: 6: Domestic Security - Sections changed: 1
Title: 20: Employees' Benefits - Sections changed: 3
Title: 25: Indians - Sections changed: 27
Title: 26: Internal Revenue - Sections changed: 1
Title: 29: Labor - Sections changed: 1
Title: 33: Navigation and Navigable Waters - Sections changed: 2
Title: 40: Protection of Environment - Sections changed: 1
Title: 46: Shipping - Sections changed: 1
Title: 47: Telecommunication - Sections changed: 36
Title: 50: Wildlife and Fisheries - Sections changed: 1

cfr/title-12-Banks-Banking/chapter-VII-National-Credit-Union-Administration/subchapter-A-Regulations-Affecting-Credit-Unions/part-702-Capital-Adequacy/section-702.2.md, after:

##### § 702.2 Definitions. #####

Link to an amendment published at 80 FR 66706, Oct. 29, 2015.This amendment was delayed until Jan. 1, 2020, at 83 FR 55467, Nov. 6, 2018.This amendment was further delayed until Jan. 1, 2022, at 84 FR 68781, Dec. 17, 2019.

Except as provided below, the terms used in this part have the same meanings as set forth in FCUA sections 101 and 216, 12 U.S.C. 1752, 1790d.

(a) *Appropriate Regional Director* means the director of the NCUA Regional Office having jurisdiction over federally insured credit unions in the state where the affected credit union is principally located or, for credit unions with $10 billion or more in assets, the Director of the Office of National Examinations and Supervision.

(b) *Appropriate State official* means the commission, board or other supervisory authority having jurisdiction over credit unions chartered by the State which chartered the affected credit union.

(c) *Credit union* means a federally insured, natural person credit union, whether federally- or State-chartered, as defined by 12 U.S.C. 1752(6).

(d) *CUSO* means a credit union service organization as described in 12 CFR 712 *et seq.* for federally-chartered credit unions, and as defined under State law for State-chartered credit unions.

(e) *NCUSIF* means the National Credit Union Share Insurance Fund as defined by 12 U.S.C. 1783.

(f) *Net Worth* means (1) The retained earnings balance of the credit union at quarter-end as determined under generally accepted accounting principles, subject to paragraph (f)(3) of this section. Retained earnings consists of undivided earnings, regular reserves, and any other appropriations designated by management or regulatory authorities;

(2) For a low income-designated credit union, net worth also includes secondary capital accounts that are uninsured and subordinate to all other claims, including claims of creditors, shareholders and the NCUSIF; and

(3) For a credit union that acquires another credit union in a mutual combination, net worth includes the retained earnings of the acquired credit union, or of an integrated set of activities and assets, less any bargain purchase gain recognized in either case to the extent the difference between the two is greater than zero. The acquired retained earnings must be determined at the point of acquisition under generally accepted accounting principles. A mutual combination is a transaction in which a credit union acquires another credit union or acquires an integrated set of activities and assets that is capable of being conducted and managed as a credit union.

(4) The term “net worth” also includes loans to and accounts in an insured credit union established pursuant to section 208 of the Act [12 U.S.C. 1788], provided such loans and accounts:

(i) Have a remaining maturity of more than 5 years;

(ii) Are subordinate to all other claims including those of shareholders, creditors and the National Credit Union Share Insurance Fund;

(iii) Are not pledged as security on a loan to, or other obligation of, any party;

(iv) Are not insured by the National Credit Union Share Insurance Fund;

(v) Have non-cumulative dividends;

(vi) Are transferable; and

(vii) Are available to cover operating losses realized by the insured credit union that exceed its available retained earnings.

(g) *Net worth ratio* means the ratio of the net worth of the credit union (as defined in paragraph (f) of this section) to the total assets of the credit union (as defined by a measure chosen under paragraph (j) of this section).

(h) *New credit union* means a federally insured credit union which both has been in operation for less than ten (10) years and has $10,000,000 or less in total assets.

(i) *Senior executive officer* means a senior executive officer as defined by 12 CFR 701.14(b)(2).

(j) *Shares* means deposits, shares, share certificates, share drafts, or any other depository account authorized by federal or state law.

(k) *Total assets.* (1) Total assets means a credit union's total assets as measured by either -

(i) *Average quarterly balance.* The average of quarter-end balances of the current and three preceding calendar quarters; or

(ii) *Average monthly balance.* The average of month-end balances over the three calendar months of the calendar quarter; or

(iii) *Average daily balance.* The average daily balance over the calendar quarter; or

(iv) *Quarter-end balance.* The quarter-end balance of the calendar quarter as reported on the credit union's Call Report.

(2) For each quarter, a credit union must elect a measure of total assets from paragraph (k)(1) of this section to apply for all purposes under this part except §§ 702.103 through 702.108 [risk-based net worth requirement].

(3) Notwithstanding paragraph (k)(1) of this section, a credit union may exclude loans pledged as collateral for a non-recourse loan that is provided as part of the Paycheck Protection Program Lending Facility, announced by the Federal Reserve Board on April 7, 2020, from the calculation of total assets for the purpose of calculating its net worth ratio. For the purpose of this provision, a credit union's liability under the Facility must be reduced by the principal amount of the loans pledged as collateral for funds advanced under the Facility.

(l) *Weighted-average life* means the weighted-average time to the return of a dollar of principal, calculated by multiplying each portion of principal received by the time at which it is expected to be received (based on a reasonable and supportable estimate of that time), and then summing and dividing by the total amount of principal.

[65 FR 8584, Feb. 18, 2000, as amended at 65 FR 44966, July 20, 2000; 67 FR 71087, Nov. 29, 2002; 73 FR 72691, Dec. 1, 2008; 75 FR 34620, June 18, 2010; 76 FR 60367, Sept. 29, 2011; 78 FR 32544, May 31, 2013; 85 FR 23216, Apr. 27, 2020]
