##### § 1.905-5T Foreign tax redeterminations and currency translation rules for foreign tax redeterminations occurring in taxable years beginning prior to January 1, 1987 (temporary). #####

(a) *In general.* This section sets forth rules governing the application of section 905(c) to foreign tax redeterminations occurring prior to January 1, 1987. However, the rules of this section also apply to foreign tax redeterminations occurring after December 31, 1986 with respect to foreign tax deemed paid under section 902 or section 960 with respect to pre-1987 accumulated profits (as defined in § 1.902-1(a)(10)(i).

(b) *Currency translation rules* - (1) *Foreign taxes paid by the taxpayer and certain foreign taxes deemed paid.* Foreign taxes paid in foreign currency that are paid by or on behalf of a taxpayer or deemed paid under section 960 (or under section 902 in a deemed distribution under section 1248) shall be translated into dollars at the rate of exchange for the date of the payment of the foreign tax. Refunds of such taxes shall be translated into dollars at the rate of exchange for the date of the refund.

(2) *Foreign taxes deemed paid on an actual distribution.* Foreign taxes deemed paid by a taxpayer under section 902 with respect to an actual distribution and refunds of such taxes shall be translated into dollars at the rate of exchange for the date of the distribution of the earnings to which the taxes relate.

(c) *Foreign tax redetermination.* The term “foreign tax redetermination” means a foreign tax redetermination as defined in § 1.905-3T(c).

(d) *Redetermination of United States tax liability* - (1) *In general.* A redetermination of United States tax liability is required with respect to any foreign tax redetermination subject to this section and shall be subject to the requirements of § 1.905-4T(b). The content of the notification required by this paragraph (d) shall be the same as provided in § 1.905-4T(c), except as modified by paragraphs (d) (2), (3), and (4) of this section.

(2) *Refunds.* In the case of any refund of foreign tax, the rate of exchange on the date of the refund shall be included in the information required by§ 1.905-4T(c)(2).

(3) *Foreign taxes deemed paid under section 902.* In the case of foreign taxes paid or accrued by a foreign corporation that are deemed paid or accrued under section 902 with respect to an actual distribution and with respect to which there was a redetermination of foreign tax, the United States taxpayer's information shall include, in lieu of the information required by § 1.905-4T(c)(3), the following: the foreign corporation's name and identifying number (if any); the date on which the foreign taxes were accrued and the dates on which the foreign taxes were paid; the amounts of the foreign taxes accrued or paid in foreign currency on each such date; the dates on which any foreign taxes were refunded and the amounts thereof; the dates and amounts of any dividend distributions made out of earnings and profits for the affected year or years; the rate of exchange on the date of any such distribution; and the amount of earnings and profits from which such dividends were paid for the affected year or years.

(4) *Foreign taxes deemed paid under section 960.* In the case of foreign taxes paid under section 960 (or under section 902 in the case of an amount treated as a dividend under section 1248), the rate of exchange determined under § 1.964-1 for translating accrued foreign taxes shall be included in the information required by ;§ 1.905-4T(c)(3).

(e) *Exception for de minimis currency fluctuations.* A United States taxpayer need not notify the Service of a foreign tax redetermination that results solely from a currency fluctuation if the amount of such redetermination with respect to the foreign country is less than the lesser of ten thousand dollars or two percent of the total dollar amount of the foreign tax, prior to the adjustment, initially accrued with respect to that foreign country for the taxable year.

(f) *Special effective/applicability date.* See § 1.905-4T(f) for the applicability date of notification requirements relating to foreign tax redeterminations that affect foreign taxes deemed paid under section 902 or section 960 with respect to pre-1987 accumulated profits accumulated in taxable years of a foreign corporation beginning on or after January 1, 1987. Failure to comply with the provisions of this section shall subject the taxpayer to the penalty provisions of section 6689 and the regulations thereunder. In no case, however, shall this paragraph operate to extend the statute of limitations provided by section 6511(d)(3)(A).

(g) *Expiration date.* The applicability of this section expires on or before November 5, 2010.

[T.D. 8210, 53 FR 23618, June 23, 1988, as amended by T.D. 9362, 72 FR 62787, Nov. 7, 2007]