##### § 1.905-3 Adjustments to U.S. tax liability as a result of a foreign tax redetermination. #####

(a) *Foreign tax redetermination.* The term *foreign tax redetermination* means a change in the liability for a foreign income tax, as defined in § 1.960-1(b)(5), or certain other changes described in this paragraph (a) that may affect a taxpayer's foreign tax credit. In the case of a taxpayer that claims the credit in the year the taxes are paid, a foreign tax redetermination occurs if any portion of the tax paid is subsequently refunded. In the case of a taxpayer that claims the credit in the year the taxes accrue, a foreign tax redetermination occurs if taxes that when paid or later adjusted differ from amounts accrued by the taxpayer and claimed as a credit or added to PTEP group taxes (as defined in § 1.960-3(d)(1)). A foreign tax redetermination includes corrections and other adjustments to accrued amounts to reflect the final foreign tax liability, including additional payments of tax that accrue after the close of the taxable year to which the tax relates and, for foreign income taxes taken into account when accrued but translated into dollars on the date of payment, a payment of accrued tax if the value of the foreign currency relative to the dollar has changed between the date or taxable year of accrual and the date of payment. A foreign tax redetermination occurs if any tax claimed as a credit or added to PTEP group taxes is refunded in whole or in part, regardless of whether such tax was paid within the meaning of § 1.901-2(e) at the time the tax was claimed as a credit or added to PTEP group taxes. A foreign tax redetermination also includes accrued foreign income taxes that are not paid on or before the date that is 24 months after the close of the taxable year of the section 901 taxpayer (as defined in § 1.986(a)-1(a)(1)) to which such taxes relate, as well as a subsequent payment of any such accrued but unpaid taxes. If accrued foreign income taxes are not paid on or before the date that is 24 months after the close of the taxable year to which they relate, the resulting foreign tax redetermination is accounted for as if the unpaid portion of the foreign income taxes were refunded on such date. Foreign income taxes that first accrue after the date 24 months after the close of the taxable year to which such taxes relate may not be claimed as a credit or added to PTEP group taxes until paid. See section 905(b) and § 1.461-4(g)(6)(iii)(B), which require the taxpayer to establish the amount of tax that was properly accrued.

(b) *Redetermination of U.S. tax liability* - (1) *Foreign income taxes other than taxes deemed paid under section 960* - (i) *In general.* This paragraph (b)(1) applies to foreign income taxes claimed as a credit under section 901 other than foreign income taxes deemed paid under section 960. If a foreign tax redetermination occurs with respect to foreign income tax claimed as a credit under section 901 (other than a tax deemed paid under section 960), then a redetermination of U.S. tax liability is required for the taxable year in which the tax was claimed as a credit and any year to which unused foreign taxes from such year were carried under section 904(c). In the case of a taxpayer that claims the credit in the year the taxes are paid, the redetermination of U.S. tax liability is made by reducing the tax paid in such year by the amount refunded. In the case of a taxpayer that claims the credit in the year the taxes accrue, the redetermination of U.S. tax liability is made by treating the redetermined amount of foreign tax as the amount of tax that accrued in the year to which the redetermined tax relates. However, a redetermination of U.S. tax liability is not required (and a taxpayer need not notify the IRS) if the foreign income taxes are taken into account when accrued but translated into dollars on the date of payment, the difference between the dollar value of the accrued foreign income tax and the dollar value of the foreign income tax paid is solely attributable to fluctuations in the value of the foreign currency relative to the dollar between the date or taxable year of accrual and the date of payment, and the net dollar amount of the currency fluctuations attributable to the foreign tax redeterminations with respect to each and every foreign country is less than the lesser of $10,000 or two percent of the total dollar amount of the foreign income tax initially accrued with respect to that foreign country for the taxable year. In such case, if no redetermination of U.S. tax liability is made, an appropriate adjustment is made to the taxpayer's U.S. tax liability in the taxable year during which the foreign tax redeterminations occur.

(ii) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the application of this paragraph (b)(1) and § 1.986(a)-1. In all examples, assume that USC is a domestic corporation that uses the calendar year as its taxable year both for Federal income tax purposes and for foreign tax purposes and that it is doing business through a foreign branch operating in Country X, which is a qualified business unit (within the meaning of section 989 and § 1.989(a)-1) (QBU) the functional currency of which is the “u.” Except as otherwise provided, the “u” is not an inflationary currency within the meaning of § 1.986(a)-1(a)(2)(iii). USC is an accrual basis taxpayer.

(A) *Example 1: Contested tax* - (*1*) *Facts.* In Year 1, USC earned 500u of foreign source foreign branch category income through its foreign branch in Country X and accrued and paid 50u of Country X foreign income tax on its earnings. The average exchange rate for Year 1 used to translate the foreign income taxes into dollars was $1x:1u. *See* § 1.986(a)-1(a)(1). On its Year 1 income tax return, USC claimed a foreign tax credit under section 901 of $50x (50u translated at the average exchange rate for Year 1, that is, $1x:1u). In Year 4, Country X assessed an additional 20u of tax with respect to USC's Year 1 earnings. USC did not pay or accrue the additional 20u of tax and contested the assessment. After exhausting all effective and practical remedies to reduce, over time, its liability for foreign tax, USC settled the contest with Country X in Year 6, paying 10u of additional tax on September 1, Year 6, when the spot rate was $1.10x:1u.

(*2*) *Analysis.* USC's payment in Year 6 of the 10u of additional tax accrued with respect to Year 1 is a foreign tax redetermination under paragraph (a) of this section. Under paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, the additional tax is taken into account in Year 1, the year to which the redetermined tax relates, irrespective of when the tax is paid. Under § 1.986(a)-1(a)(2)(i), because the tax was paid more than 24 months after the close of the year to which the redetermined tax relates, the 10u of tax is translated into dollars at the spot rate on the date of payment in Year 6 (10u at $1.10x:1u = $11x). If USC timely notifies the IRS, it may claim an increased foreign tax credit for Year 1. USC must also make corresponding adjustments in determining its taxable income and net unrecognized section 987 gain or loss in Year 1. See §§ 1.987-3(c)(2)(v) and 1.987-4(d)(7).

(B) *Example 2: Refund of tax improperly claimed as a credit* - (*1*) *Facts.* USC holds a note issued by FC, an unrelated foreign corporation in Country Y. In Year 1, FC owed USC 500u of interest on the loan. The statutory rate of withholding on interest paid to a nonresident of Country Y is 20%. On December 1, Year 1, when the spot rate was $1x:1u, FC withheld and remitted to Country Y 100u of tax and paid 400u to USC Effective for Year 1, USC elected under § 1.986(a)-1(a)(2)(iv) to translate its taxes denominated in nonfunctional currency into dollars at the spot rate on the date the taxes are paid. Under the United States - Country Y Income Tax Treaty (Treaty), USC was entitled to a reduced 15% rate of withholding that would result in a withholding tax of 75u. However, USC improperly claimed a foreign tax credit under section 901 for 100u = $100x on its Year 1 Federal income tax return. (See § 1.901-2(e)(2)(i) and (e)(5), providing that an amount is not tax paid to the extent it exceeds the taxpayer's liability for tax or is reasonably certain to be refunded.) In Year 4, USC filed a refund claim with Country Y for 25u, the difference between the amount actually withheld at the 20% statutory rate of tax and the amount owed by USC at the 15% Treaty rate. On March 15, Year 6, when the spot rate was $1.10x:1u, USC received a refund from Country Y of 25u. USC converted the 25u into dollars on the same day.

(*2*) *Analysis.* Notwithstanding that the 25u of refundable tax did not constitute an amount of tax paid within the meaning of § 1.901-2(e) at the time USC improperly claimed it as a credit, the 25u refund in Year 6 is a foreign tax redetermination under paragraph (a) of this section. Under paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, USC must redetermine its U.S. tax liability for Year 1, the taxable year to which the redetermined tax relates. Under § 1.986(a)-1(c), the refund is translated at the exchange rate that was used to translate such amount when originally claimed as a credit. Accordingly, if not previously adjusted by USC or the Internal Revenue Service, USC must file an amended return for Year 1, reducing the amount of foreign tax credit claimed for Year 1 by $25x (25u translated at the spot rate on December 1, Year 1; that is, $1x:1u). Under § 1.986(a)-1(e)(1), USC's basis in the 25u is the same dollar value of the refund as determined under § 1.986(a)-1(c), or $25x. When USC converted the 25u to $27.50x (translated at the spot rate on March 15, Year 6, that is, $1.10x:1u), it realized an exchange gain (within the meaning of § 1.988-1(e)) equal to $2.50x ($27.50x−$25x basis).

(C) *Example 3: Change in functional currency* - (*1*) *Facts.* In Year 1, USC earned 500u of foreign source foreign branch category income through its foreign branch in Country X and accrued 100u of Country X foreign income tax on its earnings. The average exchange rate for Year 1 used to translate the foreign income taxes into dollars was $1x:1u. *See* § 1.986(a)-1(a)(1). On its Federal income tax return for Year 1, USC claimed a foreign tax credit under section 901 of $100x (100u translated at the average exchange rate for Year 1, that is, $1x:1u). As of Year 2, the foreign branch changed its functional currency from the “u” to the dollar, and pursuant to § 1.985-5(d)(2), USC's foreign branch terminated and USC recognized section 987 gain or loss on December 31, Year 1 (the date of change). The rate of exchange, as determined under § 1.985-5(c), used to calculate the U.S. dollar basis in the foreign branch's property on the date of the change was $1.10x:1u, the spot rate on December 31, Year 1. On June 15, Year 3, when the spot rate was $1.30x:1u, USC's foreign branch received a refund from Country X of 10u. The foreign branch converted the 10u into $13x on the same day.

(*2*) *Analysis.* The 10u refund in Year 3 is a foreign tax redetermination under paragraph (a) of this section. Under paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, USC must redetermine its U.S. tax liability for Year 1, the taxable year to which the redetermined tax relates. Under § 1.986(a)-1(c), the refund is translated at the exchange rate that was used to translate such amount when originally claimed as a credit. Accordingly, USC must file an amended return, reducing the amount of foreign tax credit claimed for Year 1 by $10x (10u translated at the average exchange rate for Year 1, that is $1x:1u). USC must also make corresponding adjustments in determining its taxable income and net unrecognized section 987 gain or loss in Year 1. See §§ 1.987-3(c)(2)(v) and 1.987-4(d)(8). Because the foreign branch changed its functional currency to the dollar in Year 2, the 10u it receives is a refund of nonfunctional currency tax that is denominated in a currency that was the functional currency of the foreign branch at the time USC originally claimed a credit for that foreign income tax. Under §§ 1.985-5(d)(2) and 1.987-4(d), in Year 1 USC must recognize an additional $1x of section 987 gain (or $1x less of section 987 loss) by reason of the 10u being treated as an asset of the foreign branch at the time of the foreign branch's termination. Under § 1.986(a)-1(e)(2), USC's basis in the 10u refund is $11x, which is determined by using the exchange rate used under § 1.985-5(c) when the foreign branch changed its functional currency in Year 2 ($1.10x:1u). When the foreign branch converted the 10u to $13x (translated at the spot rate on June 15, Year 3, which is $1.30x:1u), it realized an exchange gain (within the meaning of § 1.988-1(e)) equal to $2x ($13x−$11x (10u translated at $1.10x:1u)).

(D) *Example 4: Inflationary currency* - (*1*) *Facts.* In Year 1, USC earned 500u of foreign source foreign branch category income through its foreign branch in Country X and accrued 100u of Country X foreign income tax on its earnings. The average exchange rate for Year 1 used to translate the foreign income taxes into dollars was $1x:1u. *See* § 1.986(a)-1(a)(1). On its Federal income tax return for Year 1, USC claimed a foreign tax credit under section 901 of $100x (100u translated at the average exchange rate for Year 1, that is, $1x:1u). USC paid the 100u of tax on April 15, Year 3, when the spot rate was $1x:2u. In Year 3, but not in Year 1, the u was an inflationary currency within the meaning of § 1.986(a)-1(a)(2)(iii).

(*2*) *Analysis.* Under § 1.986(a)-1(a)(2)(iii), because the u was an inflationary currency in the year the taxes were paid, USC must translate the 100u of Year 1 tax into dollars using the spot rate on the date of payment of the foreign taxes. Under paragraph (a) of this section, because the translated value of USC's Year 1 taxes when paid, that is, $50x (100u translated at the spot rate on April 15, Year 3, that is, $1x:2u), differs from the amount claimed as credits, that is, $100x (100u translated at the average exchange rate for Year 1, that is, $1x:1u), a foreign tax redetermination has occurred. Under paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, because the $50x foreign tax redetermination resulting from the currency fluctuation exceeds 2% of the $100x initially accrued, USC must redetermine its U.S. tax liability for Year 1, the taxable year to which the redetermined tax relates. Accordingly, USC must notify the IRS, reducing the amount of foreign tax credit claimed for Year 1 by $50x (the excess of the translated value of the Year 1 taxes when accrued, that is, $100x, over the translated value of the Year 1 taxes when paid, that is, $50x).

(E) *Example 5: Two-year rule* - (*1*) *Facts.* In Year 1, USC earned 500u of foreign source foreign branch category income through its foreign branch in Country X and accrued 100u of Country X foreign income tax on its earnings. The average exchange rate used to translate the foreign income taxes into dollars for Year 1 was $1x:1u. See § 1.986(a)-1(a)(1). On its Federal income tax return for Year 1, USC claimed a foreign tax credit under section 901 of $100x (100u translated at the average exchange rate for Year 1, that is, $1x:1u). USC did not pay the Year 1 foreign income taxes until March 15, Year 6, when the spot rate was $0.8x:1u.

(*2*) *Analysis* - (*i*) *Result in Year 3.* USC's failure to pay the tax by the end of Year 3 results in a foreign tax redetermination under paragraph (a) of this section. Because the taxes were not paid on or before the date 24 months after the close of the taxable year to which the tax relates, USC must account for the redetermination as if the unpaid 100u of accrued taxes were refunded on the last day of Year 3. Under paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, USC must redetermine its U.S. tax liability for Year 1, the taxable year to which the redetermined tax relates. Under § 1.986(a)-1(c), the deemed refund is translated at the exchange rate that was used to translate such amount when originally claimed as a credit. Accordingly, USC must notify the IRS, reducing the amount of foreign tax credit claimed for Year 1 by $100x (100u translated at the average exchange rate for Year 1, that is, $1x:1u). USC must also make corresponding adjustments in determining its taxable income and net unrecognized section 987 gain or loss in Year 1. See §§ 1.987-3(c)(2)(v) and 1.987-4(d)(8).

(*ii*) *Result in Year 6.* USC's payment of the Year 1 tax liability of 100u on March 15, Year 6, results in a second foreign tax redetermination under paragraph (a) of this section. Under paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, the additional tax is taken into account in Year 1, the year to which the redetermined tax relates, irrespective of when the tax is paid. Under § 1.986(a)-1(a)(2)(i), because the tax was paid more than 24 months after the close of the year to which the tax relates, USC must translate the 100u of tax at the spot rate on the date of payment of the foreign taxes in Year 6. If USC timely notifies the IRS, it may claim an increased foreign tax credit for Year 1. USC must also make corresponding adjustments in determining its taxable income and net unrecognized section 987 gain or loss in Year 1. See §§ 1.987-3(c)(2)(v) and 1.987-4(d)(7).

(F) *Example 6: Cash basis taxpayer that pays additional foreign tax* - (*1*) *Facts.* Individual A, a U.S. citizen resident in Country X, is a cash basis taxpayer who has not made an election under section 905(a) to claim the foreign tax credit in the year the taxes accrue. A uses the calendar year as the taxable year for both U.S. and Country X tax purposes. In Year 2, A pays 100u of foreign income taxes to Country X with respect to Year 1. The exchange rate used to translate the foreign income taxes into dollars was $1x:1u, the spot rate on the date A paid the taxes in Year 2. *See* section 986(a)(2)(A) and § 1.986(a)-1(b). On A's Year 2 Federal income tax return, A claims a foreign tax credit under section 901 of $100x. In Year 4, Country X assesses an additional 20u of tax with respect to A's Year 1 income. A does not pay the additional 20u of tax and contests the assessment. After exhausting all effective and practical remedies to reduce, over time, A's liability for foreign tax, A settles the contest with Country X in Year 6, paying 10u of additional tax on September 1, Year 6, when the spot rate is $1.10x:1u.

(*2*) *Analysis.* Because A is a cash basis taxpayer that claims the foreign tax credit in the year the taxes are paid, A's payment in Year 6 of 10u of additional tax owed with respect to Year 1 is not a foreign tax redetermination requiring a redetermination of U.S. tax liability under paragraph (b)(1) of this section. Rather, A is eligible to claim the additional tax as a credit in Year 6, the year in which the tax is paid. Under § 1.986(a)-1(b), the 10u of tax is translated into dollars at the spot rate on the date of payment in Year 6 (10u at $1.10x:1u = $11x).

(G) *Example 7: Cash basis taxpayer that receives a refund of foreign tax* - (*1*) *Facts.* The facts are the same as paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(F) of this section (the facts in *Example 6*) except that instead of being assessed additional tax in Year 4, A receives a refund in Year 4 of 10u with respect to A's Year 1 tax that was claimed as a credit in Year 2.

(*2*) *Analysis.* Under paragraphs (a) and (b)(1) of this section, A must redetermine its U.S. tax liability for Year 2 and any year to which unused foreign taxes were carried from Year 2. Under § 1.986(a)-1(c), the amount of A's foreign tax credit for Year 2 is reduced by $10x, the 10u refund translated at the exchange rate used to translate the tax when claimed as a credit. Under § 1.986(a)-1(e)(1), A's basis in the 10u is $10x.

(2)-(3) [Reserved]

(c) *Foreign income tax imposed on foreign refund.* If a redetermination of foreign income tax for a taxable year or years results from a refund to the section 901 taxpayer of foreign income taxes paid to a foreign country or possession of the United States and the foreign country or possession imposed foreign income tax on such refund, then, in accordance with section 905(c)(5), the amount of the refund is considered to be reduced by the amount of any foreign income tax described in section 901 imposed by the foreign country or possession of the United States with respect to such refund. In such case, no other credit under section 901, and no deduction under section 164, is allowed for any taxable year with respect to such tax imposed on such refund.

(d) *Applicability dates.* This section applies to foreign tax redeterminations occurring in taxable years ending on or after December 16, 2019.

[T.D. 9882, 84 FR 69104, Dec. 17, 2019]