##### § 1.905-4T Notification of foreign tax redetermination (temporary). #####

Link to an amendment published at 85 FR 72067, Nov. 12, 2020.

(a) *Application of this section.* The rules of this section apply if, as a result of a foreign tax redetermination (as defined in § 1.905-3T(c)), a redetermination of United States tax liability is required under section 905(c) and § 1.905-3T(d).

(b) *Time and manner of notification* - (1) *Redetermination of United States tax liability* - (i) *In general.* Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(1)(iv), (v), and (b)(3) of this section, any taxpayer for which a redetermination of United States tax liability is required must notify the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) of the foreign tax redetermination by filing an amended return, Form 1118 (Foreign Tax Credit - Corporations) or Form 1116 (Foreign Tax Credit), and the statement required under paragraph (c) of this section for the taxable year with respect to which a redetermination of United States tax liability is required. Such notification must be filed within the time prescribed by this paragraph (b) and contain the information described in paragraph (c) of this section. Where a foreign tax redetermination requires an individual to redetermine the individual's United States tax liability, and as a result of such foreign tax redetermination the amount of creditable taxes paid or accrued by such individual during the taxable year does not exceed the applicable dollar limitation in section 904(k), the individual shall not be required to file Form 1116 with the amended return for such taxable year if the individual satisfies the requirements of section 904(k).

(ii) *Reduction in amount of foreign tax liability.* Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(1)(iv), (v), and (b)(3) of this section, for each taxable year of the taxpayer with respect to which a redetermination of United States tax liability is required by reason of a foreign tax redetermination that reduces the amount of foreign taxes paid or accrued, or included in the computation of foreign taxes deemed paid, the taxpayer must file a separate notification for each such taxable year by the due date (with extensions) of the original return for the taxpayer's taxable year in which the foreign tax redetermination occurred.

(iii) *Increase in amount of foreign tax liability.* Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(1)(iv), (v), and (b)(3) of this section, for each taxable year of the taxpayer with respect to which a redetermination of United States tax liability is required by reason of a foreign tax redetermination that increases the amount of foreign taxes paid or accrued, or included in the computation of foreign taxes deemed paid, the taxpayer must notify the Internal Revenue Service within the period provided by section 6511(d)(3)(A). Filing of such notification within the prescribed period shall constitute a claim for refund of United States tax.

(iv) *Multiple redeterminations of United States tax liability for same taxable year.* Where more than one foreign tax redetermination requires a redetermination of United States tax liability for the same taxable year of the taxpayer and those redeterminations occur within two consecutive taxable years of the taxpayer, the taxpayer may file for such taxable year one amended return, Form 1118 or 1116, and the statement required under paragraph (c) of this section that reflect all such foreign tax redeterminations. If the taxpayer chooses to file one notification for such redeterminations, the taxpayer must file such notification by the due date (with extensions) of the original return for the taxpayer's taxable year in which the first foreign tax redetermination that reduces foreign tax liability occurred. Where a foreign tax redetermination with respect to the taxable year for which a redetermination of United States tax liability is required occurs after the date for providing such notification, more than one amended return may be required with respect to that taxable year.

(v) *Carryback and carryover of unused foreign tax.* Where a foreign tax redetermination requires a redetermination of United States tax liability that would otherwise result in an additional amount of United States tax due, but such amount is eliminated as a result of a carryback or carryover of an unused foreign tax under section 904(c), the taxpayer may, in lieu of applying the rules of paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section, notify the IRS of such redetermination by attaching a statement to the original return for the taxpayer's taxable year in which the foreign tax redetermination occurs. Such statement must be filed by the due date (with extensions) of the original return for the taxpayer's taxable year in which the foreign tax redetermination occurred and contain the information described in § 1.904-2(f).

(vi) *Example.* The following example illustrates the application of this paragraph (b)(1):

Example.(i) X, a domestic corporation, is an accrual basis taxpayer and uses the calendar year as its United States taxable year. X conducts business through a branch in Country M, the currency of which is the m, and also conducts business through a branch in Country N, the currency of which is the n. X uses the average exchange rate to translate foreign income taxes. Assume that X is able to claim a credit under section 901 for all foreign taxes paid or accrued.

(ii) In 2008, X accrued and paid 100m of Country M taxes with respect to 400m of foreign source general category income. The average exchange rate for 2008 was $1:1m. Also in 2008, X accrued and paid 50n of Country N taxes with respect to 150n of foreign source general category income. The average exchange rate for 2008 was $1:1n. X claimed a foreign tax credit of $150 ($100 (100m at $1:1m) + $50 (50n at $1:1n)) with respect to its foreign source general category income on its United States tax return for 2008.

(iii) In 2009, X accrued and paid 100n of Country N taxes with respect to 300n of foreign source general category income. The average exchange rate for 2009 was $1.50:1n. X claimed a foreign tax credit of $150 (100n at $1.5:1n) with respect to its foreign source general category income on its United States tax return for 2009.

(iv) On June 15, 2012, when the spot exchange rate was $1.40:1n, X received a refund of 10n from Country N, and, on March 15, 2013, when the spot exchange rate was $1.20:1m, X was assessed by and paid Country M an additional 20m of tax. Both payments were with respect to X's foreign source general category income in 2008. On May 15, 2013, when the spot exchange rate was $1.45:1n, X received a refund of 5n from Country N with respect to its foreign source general category income in 2009.

(v) X must redetermine its United States tax liability for both 2008 and 2009. With respect to 2008, X must notify the IRS of the June 15, 2012, refund of 10n from Country N that reduced X's foreign tax liability by filing an amended return, Form 1118, and the statement required in paragraph (c) of this section for 2008 by the due date of the original return (with extensions) for 2012. The amended return and Form 1118 must reduce the amount of foreign taxes claimed as a credit under section 901 by $10 (10n refund translated at the average exchange rate for 2008, or $1:1n (see § 1.905-3T(b)(3)). X will recognize foreign currency gain or loss under section 988 in or after 2012 on the conversion of the 10n refund into dollars. With respect to the March 15, 2013, additional assessment of 20m by Country M, X must notify the IRS within the time period provided by section 6511(d)(3)(A), increasing the foreign taxes available as a credit by $24 (20m translated at the exchange rate on the date of payment, or $1.20:1m). See sections 986(a)(1)(B)(i) and 986(a)(2)(A) and § 1.905-3T(b)(1)(ii)(A). X may so notify the IRS by filing a second amended return, Form 1118, and the statement required in paragraph (c) of this section for 2008, within the time period provided by section 6511(d)(3)(A). Alternatively, when X redetermines its United States tax liability for 2008 to take into account the 10n refund from Country N which occurred in 2012, X may also take into account the 20m additional assessment by Country M which occurred on March 15, 2013. See § 1.905-4T(b)(1)(iv). Where X reflects both foreign tax redeterminations on the same amended return, Form 1118, and in the statement required in paragraph (c) of this section for 2008, the amount of X's foreign taxes available as a credit would be:

(A) Reduced by $10 (10n refund translated at $1:1n) and

(B) Increased by $24 (20m additional assessment translated at the exchange rate on the date of payment, March 15, 2013, or $1.20:1m). The foreign taxes available as a credit therefore would be increased by $14 ($24 (additional assessment) − $10 (refund)). The due date of the 2008 amended return, Form 1118, and the statement required in paragraph (c) of this section reflecting foreign tax redeterminations in both years would be the due date (with extensions) of X's original return for 2012.

(vi) With respect to 2009, X must notify the IRS by filing an amended return, Form 1118, and the statement required in paragraph (c) of this section for 2009 that is separate from that filed for 2008. The amended return, Form 1118, and the statement required in paragraph (c) of this section for 2009 must be filed by the due date (with extensions) of X's original return for 2013. The amended return and Form 1118 must reduce the amount of foreign taxes claimed as a credit under section 901 by $7.50 (5n refund translated at the average exchange rate for 2009, or $1.50:1n). X will recognize foreign currency gain or loss under section 988 in or after 2013 on the conversion of the 5n refund into dollars.

(2) *Pooling adjustment in lieu of redetermination of United States tax liability.* Where a redetermination of foreign tax paid or accrued by a foreign corporation affects the computation of foreign taxes deemed paid under section 902 or 960, and the taxpayer is required to adjust the foreign corporation's pools of post-1986 undistributed earnings and post-1986 foreign income taxes under § 1.905-3T(d)(2), the taxpayer is required to notify the IRS of such redetermination by reflecting the adjustments to the foreign corporation's pools of post-1986 undistributed earnings and post-1986 foreign income taxes on a Form 1118 for the taxpayer's first taxable year with respect to which the redetermination affects the computation of foreign taxes deemed paid. Such Form 1118 must be filed by the due date (with extensions) of the original return for such taxable year. In the case of multiple redeterminations that affect the computation of foreign taxes deemed paid for the same taxable year and that are required to be reported under this paragraph (b)(2), a taxpayer may file one notification for all such redeterminations in lieu of filing a separate notification for each such redetermination. See section 905(b) and the regulations under that section which require that a taxpayer substantiate that a foreign tax was paid and provide all necessary information establishing its entitlement to the foreign tax credit.

(3) *Taxpayers under the jurisdiction of the Large and Mid-Size Business Division.* The rules of this paragraph (b)(3) apply where a redetermination of United States tax liability is required by reason of a foreign tax redetermination that results in a reduction in the amount of foreign taxes paid or accrued, or included in the computation of foreign taxes deemed paid, and such foreign tax redetermination occurs while a taxpayer is under the jurisdiction of the Large and Mid-Size Business Division (or similar program). The taxpayer must, in lieu of applying the rules of paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section (requiring the filing of an amended return, Form 1118, and a statement described in paragraph (c) of this section by the due date (with extensions) of the original return for the taxpayer's taxable year in which the foreign tax redetermination occurred), notify the IRS of such redetermination by providing to the examiner the statement described in paragraph (c) of this section during an examination of the return for the taxable year for which a redetermination of United States tax liability is required by reason of such foreign tax redetermination. The taxpayer must provide the statement to the examiner no later than 120 days after the latest of the date the foreign tax redetermination occurs, the opening conference of the examination, or the hand-delivery or postmark date of the opening letter concerning the examination. If, however, the foreign tax redetermination occurs more than 180 days after the latest of the opening conference or the hand-delivery or postmark date of the opening letter, the taxpayer may, in lieu of applying the rules of paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section, provide the statement to the examiner within 120 days after the date the foreign tax redetermination occurs, and the IRS, in its discretion, may accept such statement or require the taxpayer to comply with the rules of paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section. A taxpayer subject to the rules of this paragraph (b)(3) must satisfy the rules of this paragraph (b)(3) (in lieu of the rules of paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section) in order not to be subject to the penalty relating to the failure to file notice of a foreign tax redetermination under section 6689 and the regulations under that section. This paragraph (b)(3) shall not apply where the due date specified in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section for providing notice of the foreign tax redetermination precedes the latest of the opening conference or the hand-delivery or postmark date of the opening letter concerning an examination of the return for the taxable year for which a redetermination of United States tax liability is required by reason of such foreign tax redetermination. In addition, any statement that would otherwise be required to be provided under this paragraph (b)(3) on or before May 5, 2008 will be considered timely if provided on or before May 5, 2008.

(4) *Example.* The following example illustrates the application of paragraph (b)(3) of this section:

Example.X, a taxpayer under the jurisdiction of the Large and Mid-Size Business Division, uses the calendar year as its United States taxable year. On October 15, 2009, X receives a refund of foreign tax that constitutes a foreign tax redetermination that necessitates a redetermination of United States tax liability for X's 2008 taxable year. Under paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, X is required to notify the IRS of the foreign tax redetermination by filing an amended return, Form 1118, and the statement required in paragraph (c) of this section for its 2008 taxable year by September 15, 2010 (the due date (with extensions) of the original return for X's 2009 taxable year). On December 15, 2010, the IRS hand delivers an opening letter concerning the examination of the return for X's 2008 taxable year, and the opening conference for such examination is scheduled for January 15, 2011. Because the date for notifying the IRS of the foreign tax redetermination under paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section precedes the date of the opening conference concerning the examination of the return for X's 2008 taxable year, paragraph (b)(3) of this section does not apply, and X must notify the IRS of the foreign tax redetermination by filing a amended return, Form 1118, and the statement required in paragraph (c) of this section for the 2008 taxable year by September 15, 2010.

(c) *Notification contents* - (1) *In general.* In addition to satisfying the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section, the taxpayer must furnish a statement that contains information sufficient for the IRS to redetermine the taxpayer's United States tax liability where such a redetermination is required under section 905(c), and to verify adjustments to the pools of post-1986 undistributed earnings and post-1986 foreign income taxes where such adjustments are required under § 1.905-3T(d)(2). The information must be in a form that enables the IRS to verify and compare the original computations with respect to a claimed foreign tax credit, the revised computations resulting from the foreign tax redetermination, and the net changes resulting therefrom. The statement must include the taxpayer's name, address, identifying number, and the taxable year or years of the taxpayer that are affected by the foreign tax redetermination. In addition, the taxpayer must provide the information described in paragraph (c)(2) or (c)(3) of this section, as appropriate. If the statement is submitted to the IRS under paragraph (b)(3) of this section, which provides requirements with respect to reporting by taxpayers under the jurisdiction of the Large and Mid-Size Business Division, the statement must also include the following declaration signed by a person authorized to sign the return of the taxpayer: “Under penalties of perjury, I declare that I have examined this written statement, and to the best of my knowledge and belief, this written statement is true, correct, and complete.”

(2) *Foreign taxes paid or accrued.* Where a redetermination of United States tax liability is required by reason of a foreign tax redetermination as defined in § 1.905-3T(c), in addition to the information described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the taxpayer must provide the following: the date or dates the foreign taxes were accrued, if applicable; the date or dates the foreign taxes were paid; the amount of foreign taxes paid or accrued on each date (in foreign currency) and the exchange rate used to translate each such amount, as provided in § 1.905-3T(b)(1) or (b)(2); and information sufficient to determine any interest due from or owing to the taxpayer, including the amount of any interest paid by the foreign government to the taxpayer and the dates received. In addition, in the case of any foreign tax that is refunded in whole or in part, the taxpayer must provide the date of each such refund; the amount of such refund (in foreign currency); and the exchange rate that was used to translate such amount when originally claimed as a credit (as provided in § 1.905-3T(b)(3)) and the exchange rate for the date the refund was received (for purposes of computing foreign currency gain or loss under section 988). In addition, in the case of any foreign taxes that were not paid before the date two years after the close of the taxable year to which such taxes relate, the taxpayer must provide the amount of such taxes in foreign currency, and the exchange rate that was used to translate such amount when originally added to post-1986 foreign income taxes or claimed as a credit. Where a redetermination of United States tax liability results in an amount of additional tax due, but the carryback or carryover of an unused foreign tax under section 904(c) only partially eliminates such amount, the taxpayer must also provide the information required in § 1.904-2(f).

(3) *Foreign taxes deemed paid.* Where a redetermination of United States tax liability is required under § 1.905-3T(d)(3) to account for the effect of a redetermination of foreign tax paid or accrued by a foreign corporation on foreign taxes deemed paid under section 902 or 960, in addition to the information described in paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section, the taxpayer must provide the balances of the pools of post-1986 undistributed earnings and post-1986 foreign income taxes before and after adjusting the pools in accordance with the rules of § 1.905-3T(d)(2), the dates and amounts of any dividend distributions or other inclusions made out of earnings and profits for the affected year or years, and the amount of earnings and profits from which such dividends were paid for the affected year or years.

(d) *Payment or refund of United States tax.* The amount of tax, if any, due upon a redetermination of United States tax liability shall be paid by the taxpayer after notice and demand has been made by the IRS. Subchapter B of chapter 63 of the Internal Revenue Code (relating to deficiency procedures) shall not apply with respect to the assessment of the amount due upon such redetermination. In accordance with sections 905(c) and 6501(c)(5), the amount of additional tax due shall be assessed and collected without regard to the provisions of section 6501(a) (relating to limitations on assessment and collection). The amount of tax, if any, shown by a redetermination of United States tax liability to have been overpaid shall be credited or refunded to the taxpayer in accordance with the provisions of section 6511(d)(3)(A) and § 301.6511(d)-3 of this chapter.

(e) *Interest and penalties* - (1) *In general.* If a redetermination of United States tax liability is required by reason of a foreign tax redetermination, interest shall be computed on the underpayment or overpayment in accordance with sections 6601 and 6611 and the regulations under these sections. No interest shall be assessed or collected on any underpayment resulting from a refund of foreign tax for any period before the receipt of the refund, except to the extent interest was paid by the foreign country or possession of the United States on the refund for the period. In no case, however, shall interest assessed and collected pursuant to the preceding sentence for any period before receipt of the foreign tax refund exceed the amount that otherwise would have been assessed and collected under section 6601 and the regulations under this section for that period. Interest shall be assessed from the time the taxpayer (or the foreign corporation of which the taxpayer is a shareholder) receives a refund until the taxpayer pays the additional tax due the United States.

(2) *Adjustments to pools of foreign taxes.* No underpayment or overpayment of United States tax liability results from a redetermination of foreign tax unless a redetermination of United States tax liability is required. Consequently, no interest shall be paid by or to a taxpayer as a result of adjustments to a foreign corporation's pools of post-1986 undistributed earnings and post-1986 foreign income taxes made in accordance with § 1.905-3T(d)(2).

(3) *Imposition of penalty.* Failure to comply with the provisions of this section shall subject the taxpayer to the penalty provisions of section 6689 and the regulations under that section.

(f) *Effective/applicability date* - (1) *In general.* This section applies to foreign tax redeterminations (defined in § 1.905-3T(c)) occurring in taxable years of United States taxpayers beginning on or after November 7, 2007, where the foreign tax redetermination affects the amount of foreign taxes paid or accrued by a United States taxpayer. Where the redetermination of foreign tax paid or accrued by a foreign corporation affects the computation of foreign taxes deemed paid under section 902 or 960 with respect to pre-1987 accumulated profits or post-1986 undistributed earnings of the foreign corporation, this section applies to foreign tax redeterminations occurring in a taxable year of the foreign corporation which ends with or within a taxable year of its domestic corporate shareholder beginning on or after November 7, 2007. In no case, however, shall this paragraph (f)(1) operate to extend the statute of limitations provided by section 6511(d)(3)(A).

(2) *Foreign tax redeterminations occurring in taxable years beginning before November 7, 2007* - (i) *Scope.* This paragraph (f)(2) applies to any foreign tax redetermination (as defined in § 1.905-3T(c)) which occurred in any of the three taxable years of a United States taxpayer immediately preceding the taxpayer's first taxable year beginning on or after November 7, 2007; reduced the amount of foreign taxes paid or accrued by the taxpayer; and requires a redetermination of United States tax liability for any taxable year. This paragraph (f)(2) also applies to any redetermination of foreign tax paid or accrued by a foreign corporation which occurred in a taxable year of the foreign corporation which ends with or within any of the three taxable years of a domestic corporate shareholder immediately preceding such shareholder's first taxable year beginning on or after November 7, 2007; reduced foreign taxes included in the computation of foreign taxes deemed paid by such shareholder under section 902 or 960; and requires a redetermination of United States tax liability under § 1.905-3T(d)(3) for any taxable year. For corresponding rules applicable to foreign tax redeterminations occurring in taxable years beginning before the third taxable year immediately preceding the taxable year beginning on or after November 7, 2007, see 26 CFR 1.905-4T and 1.905-5T (as contained in 26 CFR part 1, revised as of April 1, 2007).

(ii) *Notification required.* If, as of November 7, 2007, the taxpayer has not satisfied the notification requirements described in § 1.905-3T and this section (as contained in 26 CFR part 1, revised as of April 1, 2007, as modified by Notice 90-26, 1990-1 CB 336, see § 601.601(d)(2)(ii)(*b*) of this chapter), with respect to a foreign tax redetermination described in paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section, the taxpayer must notify the IRS of the foreign tax redetermination by filing an amended return, Form 1118 or 1116, and the statement required in paragraph (c) of this section for the taxable year with respect to which a redetermination of United States tax liability is required. Such notification must be filed no later than the due date (with extensions) of the original return for the taxpayer's first taxable year following the taxable year in which these regulations are first applicable. Where the foreign tax redetermination requires an individual to redetermine the individual's United States tax liability, and as a result of such foreign tax redetermination the amount of creditable taxes paid or accrued by such individual during the taxable year does not exceed the applicable dollar limitation in section 904(k), the individual shall not be required to file Form 1116 with the amended return for such taxable year if the individual satisfies the requirements of section 904(k). The rules of paragraphs (b)(1)(iv) and (v) of this section (concerning multiple redeterminations of United States tax liability for the same taxable year, and the carryback and carryover of unused foreign tax) shall apply.

(iii) *Taxpayers under the jurisdiction of the Large and Mid-Size Business Division.* If a taxpayer under the jurisdiction of the Large and Mid-Size Business Division is otherwise required under paragraph (f)(2)(ii) of this section to notify the IRS of a foreign tax redetermination described in paragraph (f)(2)(ii) of this section by filing an amended return, Form 1118, and the statement required in paragraph (c) of this section, such taxpayer may, in lieu of applying the rules of paragraph (f)(2)(ii) of this section, provide to the examiner the information described in paragraph (c) of this section during an examination of the return for the taxable year for which a redetermination of United States tax liability is required by reason of such foreign tax redetermination. The taxpayer must provide the information to the examiner on or before the date that is the later of May 5, 2008 or 120 days after the latest of the opening conference or the hand-delivery or postmark date of the opening letter concerning an examination of the return for the taxable year for which a redetermination of United States tax liability is required. However, if November 7, 2007 is more than 180 days after the latest of the opening conference or the hand-delivery or postmark date of the opening letter, the IRS, in its discretion, may accept such statement or require the taxpayer to comply with the rules of paragraph (f)(2)(ii) of this section. This paragraph (f)(2)(iii) shall not apply where the due date specified in paragraph (f)(2)(ii) of this section for providing notice of the foreign tax redetermination precedes the latest of the opening conference or the hand-delivery or postmark date of the opening letter concerning an examination of the return for the taxable year for which a redetermination of United States tax liability is required.

(iv) *Interest and penalties.* Interest shall be computed in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section. Failure to comply with the provisions of this paragraph (f)(2) shall subject the taxpayer to the penalty provisions of section 6689 and the regulations under that section.

(3) *Expiration date.* The applicability of this section expires on or before November 5, 2010.

[T.D. 9362, 72 FR 62784, Nov. 7, 2007; 72 FR 71787, Dec. 19, 2007]