##### § 1.904(f)-4 Recapture of foreign losses out of accumulation distributions from a foreign trust. #####

(a) *In general.* If a taxpayer receives a distribution of foreign source taxable income subject to a separate limitation in which the taxpayer had a balance in an overall foreign loss account and that income is treated under section 666 as having been distributed by a foreign trust in a preceding taxable year, a portion of the balance in the taxpayer's applicable overall foreign loss account shall be subject to recapture under this section. The amount subject to recapture shall be the lesser of the balance in the taxpayer's overall foreign loss account (after applying §§ 1.904(f)-1, 1.904(f)-2, 1.904(f)-3, and 1.904(f)-6 to the taxpayer's other income or loss in the current taxable year) or the entire amount of foreign source taxable income deemed distributed in a preceding year or years under section 666.

(b) *Effect of recapture on foreign tax credit limitation under section 667(d).* If paragraph (a) of this section is applicable, then in applying the separate limitation (in accordance with section 667(d)(1) (A) and (C)) to determine the amount of foreign taxes deemed distributed under section 666 (b) and (c) that can be credited against the increase in tax in a computation year, a portion of the foreign source taxable income deemed distributed in such computation year shall be treated as United States source income. Such portion shall be determined by multiplying the amount of foreign source taxable income deemed distributed in the computation year by a fraction. The numerator of this fraction is the balance in the taxpayer's overall foreign loss account (after application of §§ 1.904(f)-1, 1.904(f)-2, 1.904(f)-3, and 1.904(f)-6), and the denominator of the fraction is the entire amount of foreign source taxable income deemed distributed under section 666. However, the numerator of this fraction shall not exceed the denominator of the fraction.

(c) *Recapture if taxpayer deducts foreign taxes deemed distributed.* If paragraph (a) of this section is applicable and if, in accordance with section 667(d)(1)(B), the beneficiary deducted rather than credited its taxes in the computation year, the beneficiary shall reduce its overall foreign loss account (but not below zero) by an amount equal to the lesser of the balance in the applicable overall foreign loss account or the amount of the actual distribution deemed distributed in the computation year (without regard to the foreign taxes deemed distributed).

(d) *Illustrations.* The provisions of this section are illustrated by the following examples:

Example 1.X Corporation is a domestic corporation that has a balance of $10,000 in its general limitation overall foreign loss account on December 31, 1980. For its taxable year beginning January 1, 1981, X's only income is an accumulation distribution from a foreign trust of $20,000 of general limitation foreign source taxable income. Under section 666, the amount distributed and the foreign taxes paid on such amount ($4,000) are deemed distributed in two prior taxable years. In determining the partial tax on such distribution under section 667(b), the amount added to each computation year is $12,000 (the sum of the actual distribution plus the taxes deemed distributed ($24,000) divided by the number of accumulation years (2)). Of that amount, $5,000 ($10,000/$24,000 × $12,000) is treated as United States source taxable income in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section. Assuming the United States tax rate is 50 percent, X's separate foreign tax credit limitation against the increase in tax in each computation year is $3,500 ($7,000/$12,000 × $6,000) instead of $6,000 ($12,000/$12,000 × $6,000). X's overall foreign loss account is reduced to zero in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section.Example 2.Assume the same facts as in Example 1, except that X deducted rather than credited its foreign taxes in the computation years. In 1979, the amount added to X's income is $12,000 under section 667(b), $2,000 of which is deductible under section 667(d)(1)(B). X must reduce its overall foreign loss account by $10,000, the amount of the actual distribution that is deemed distributed in 1979 (without regard to the $2,000 foreign taxes also deemed distributed). The entire overall foreign loss account is therefore reduced to $0 in 1979.[T.D. 8153, 52 FR 32002, Aug. 25, 1987]