##### § 1.901(m)-6T Successor rules (temporary). #####

(a) *In general.* This section provides successor rules applicable to section 901(m). Paragraph (b) of this section provides rules for the continued application of section 901(m) after an RFA that has unallocated basis difference has been transferred, including special rules applicable to successor transactions that are also CAAs or that involve partnerships. Paragraph (c) of this section provides rules for determining when an aggregate basis difference carryover of a section 901(m) payor either becomes an aggregate basis difference carryover of the section 901(m) payor with respect to another foreign payor or is transferred to another section 901(m) payor. Paragraph (d) of this section provides the effective/applicability date, and paragraph (e) of this section provides the expiration date.

(b) *Successor rules for unallocated basis difference* - (1) *In general.* Except as provided in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, section 901(m) continues to apply after a successor transaction to any unallocated basis difference attached to a transferred RFA until the entire basis difference has been taken into account as a cost recovery amount or a disposition amount (or both) under § 1.901(m)-5T.

(2) *Definition of a successor transaction.* A successor transaction occurs with respect to an RFA if, after a CAA (prior CAA), there is a transfer of the RFA for U.S. income tax purposes and the RFA has unallocated basis difference with respect to the prior CAA, determined immediately after the transfer. A successor transaction may occur regardless of whether the transfer of the RFA is a disposition, a CAA, or a non-taxable transaction for purposes of U.S. income tax. If the RFA was subject to multiple prior CAAs, a separate determination must be made with respect to each prior CAA as to whether the transfer is a successor transaction.

(3) *Special considerations.* [Reserved].

(4) *Successor transaction is a CAA* - (i) *In general.* An asset may be an RFA with respect to multiple CAAs if a successor transaction is also a CAA (subsequent CAA). Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (b)(4), if there is a subsequent CAA, unallocated basis difference with respect to any prior CAAs will continue to be taken into account under section 901(m) after the subsequent CAA. Furthermore, the subsequent CAA may give rise to additional basis difference subject to section 901(m).

(ii) *Foreign basis election.* [Reserved].

(iii) *Multiple section 743(b) CAAs.* If an RFA is subject to two section 743(b) CAAs (prior section 743(b) CAA and subsequent section 743(b) CAA) and the same partnership interest is acquired in both the CAAs, the RFA will be treated as having no unallocated basis difference with respect to the prior section 743(b) CAA if the basis difference for the section 743(b) CAA is determined independently from the prior section 743(b) CAA. In this regard, see generally § 1.743-1(f). If the subsequent section 743(b) CAA results from the acquisition of only a portion of the partnership interest acquired in the prior section 743(b) CAA, then the transferor will be required to equitably apportion the unallocated basis difference attributable to the prior section 743(b) CAA between the portion retained by the transferor and the portion transferred. In this case, with respect to the portion transferred, the RFAs will be treated as having no unallocated basis difference with respect to the prior section 743(b) CAA if basis difference for the subsequent section 743(b) CAA is determined independently from the prior section 743(b) CAA.

(5) *Example.* The following example illustrates the rules of paragraph (b) of this section.

Example.(i) *Facts.* USP, a domestic corporation, wholly owns CFC, a foreign corporation organized in Country A and treated as a corporation for both U.S. and Country A tax purposes. FT is an unrelated foreign corporation organized in Country A and treated as a corporation for both U.S. and Country A tax purposes. FT owns one asset, a parcel of land (Asset). Country A imposes a single tax that is a foreign income tax. On January 1, Year 1, CFC acquires all of the stock of FT in exchange for 300u in a qualified stock purchase (as defined in section 338(d)(3)) to which section 338(a) applies (Acquisition). Immediately before the Acquisition, Asset had a U.S. basis of 100u, and immediately after the Acquisition, Asset had a U.S. basis of 300u. Effective on February 1, Year 1, FT elects to be a disregarded entity pursuant to § 301.7701-3. As a result of the election, FT is deemed, for U.S. income tax purposes, to distribute Asset to CFC in liquidation (Deemed Liquidation) immediately before the closing of the day before the election is effective pursuant to § 301.7701-3(g)(1)(iii) and (3)(ii). The Deemed Liquidation is disregarded for Country A tax purposes. No gain or loss is recognized on the Deemed Liquidation for either U.S. or Country A tax purposes.

(ii) *Result.* Under § 1.901(m)-2T(b)(1), the Acquisition by CFC of the stock of FT is a section 338 CAA. Under § 1.901(m)-2T(c)(1), Asset is an RFA with respect to Country A tax and the Acquisition, because immediately after the Acquisition, Asset is relevant in determining foreign income of FT for Country A tax purposes, and FT owned Asset when the Acquisition occurred. Under § 1.901(m)-4T(b), the basis difference with respect to Asset is 200u (300u−100u). Under § 1.901(m)-2T(b)(2), the Deemed Liquidation is a CAA (subsequent CAA) because the Deemed Liquidation is treated as an acquisition of assets for U.S. income tax purposes and is disregarded for Country A tax purposes. Because the U.S. basis in Asset is 300u immediately before and after the Deemed Liquidation, the subsequent CAA does not give rise to any additional basis difference. The Deemed Liquidation is not a disposition under § 1.901(m)-1T(a)(10) because it did not result in gain or loss being recognized with respect to Asset for U.S. or Country A tax purposes. Accordingly, no basis difference with respect to Asset is taken into account under § 1.901(m)-5T as a result of the Deemed Liquidation, and the unallocated basis difference with respect to Asset immediately after the Deemed Liquidation is 200u (200u−0u). Under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the Deemed Liquidation is a successor transaction because there is a transfer of Asset for U.S. income tax purposes from FT to CFC and Asset has unallocated basis difference with respect to the Acquisition immediately after the Deemed Liquidation. Accordingly, under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, section 901(m) will continue to apply to the unallocated basis difference with respect to Asset until the entire 200u basis difference has been taken into account under § 1.901(m)-5T.

(c) *Successor rules for aggregate basis difference carryover* [Reserved].

(d) *Effective/applicability date.* (1) Paragraphs (a), (b)(1), (b)(2), (b)(4)(i), (b)(4)(iii), and (b)(5) of this section apply to CAAs occurring on or after July 21, 2014, and to CAAs occurring before that date resulting from an entity classification election made under § 301.7701-3 of this chapter that is filed on or after July 29, 2014, and that is effective on or before July 21, 2014. Paragraphs (a), (b)(1), (b)(2), (b)(4)(i), (b)(4)(iii), and (b)(5) of this section also apply to CAAs occurring on or after January 1, 2011, and before July 21, 2014, other than CAAs occurring before July 21, 2014, resulting from an entity classification election made under § 301.7701-3 that is filed on or after July 29, 2014, and that is effective on or before July 21, 2014, but only with respect to basis difference determined under § 1.901(m)-4T(e) with respect to the CAA.

(2)-(3) [Reserved]

(e) *Expiration date.* The applicability of this section expires on December 6, 2019.

[T.D. 9800, 81 FR 88109, Dec. 7, 2016]