##### ยง 509.203 Answer, consequences of failure to answer, and consent. #####

(a) *Content of answer.* (1) An answer must specifically respond to each paragraph or allegation of fact contained in the notice and must admit, deny, or state that the party lacks sufficient information to admit or deny each allegation of fact. A statement of lack of information has the effect of a denial. Denials must fairly meet the substance of each allegation of fact denied; general denials are not permitted. When a respondent denies part of an allegation, that part must be denied and the remainder specifically admitted. Any allegation of fact in the notice which is not denied in the answer must be deemed admitted for purposes of the proceeding. A respondent is not required to respond to the portion of a notice that constitutes a prayer for relief or proposed Order.

(2) If a respondent does not contest the allegations in a notice, the respondent may file an answer that contains only a statement that the respondent consents to the entry of the proposed Order. At any time thereafter, the proposed Order may be issued as a final Order.

(b) *Default.* Failure of a respondent to file an answer within the time provided constitutes a waiver of its right to appear and contest the allegations in the notice. If a timely answer is not filed, a default Order may be entered. A respondent that believes that there was good cause for it to not file an answer within the time allowed may request that the Office exercise its discretion to vacate such a default Order. A default Order based upon a respondent's failure to answer is deemed to be a final Order issued upon consent.