cfr/title-13-Business-Credit-Assistance/chapter-I-Small-Business-Administration/part-127-WomenOwned-Small-Business-Federal-Contract-Program/subpart-C-Certification-EDWOSB-WOSB-Status/subjectgroup-ECFR36dc5583cbbddcb-Certification/section-127.304.md, before:

##### § 127.304 How is an application for certification processed? #####

Link to an amendment published at 88 FR 26214, Apr. 27, 2023.

(a) The SBA's Director of Government Contracting (D/GC) or designee is authorized to approve or decline applications for certification. SBA must receive all required information and supporting documents before it will begin processing a concern's application. SBA will not process incomplete applications. SBA will advise each applicant within 15 calendar days after the receipt of an application whether the application is complete and suitable for evaluation and, if not, what additional information or clarification is required to complete the application. SBA will make its determination within ninety (90) calendar days after receipt of a complete package, whenever practicable.

(b) SBA may request additional information or clarification of information contained in an application or document submission at any time.

(c) The burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility is on the applicant concern. If a concern does not provide requested information within the allotted time provided by SBA, or if it submits incomplete information, SBA may presume that disclosure of the missing information would adversely affect the business concern's eligibility or demonstrate a lack of eligibility in the area or areas to which the information relates.

(d) The applicant must be eligible as of the date it submitted its application and up until the time the D/GC issues a decision. The decision will be based on the facts contained in the application, any information received in response to SBA's request for clarification, and any changed circumstances since the date of application.

(e) Any changed circumstances occurring after an applicant has submitted an application will be considered and may constitute grounds for decline. After submitting the application and signed representation, an applicant must notify SBA of any changes that could affect its eligibility. The D/GC may propose decertification for any EDWOSB or WOSB that fails to inform SBA of any changed circumstances that affected its eligibility for the program during the processing of the application.

(f) If SBA approves the application, SBA will send a written notice to the concern and update *https://certify.sba.gov* or any successor system, and update DSBS and the System for Award Management (or any successor systems) to indicate the concern has been certified by SBA as a WOSB and/or EDWOSB.

(g) A decision to deny eligibility must be in writing and state the specific reasons for denial.

(h) SBA will send a copy of the decision letter to the electronic mail address provided with the application. SBA will consider any decision sent to this electronic mail address provided to have been received by the applicant concern.

(i) The decision of the D/GC to decline certification is the final agency decision. The concern can reapply for certification after ninety (90) days, as set forth in § 127.305.

[85 FR 27661, May 11, 2020]

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2023-05-30 issue
Title: 14: Aeronautics and Space - Sections changed: 8
Title: 7: Agriculture - Sections changed: 2
Title: 13: Business Credit and Assistance - Sections changed: 75
Title: 16: Commercial Practices - Sections changed: 7
Title: 17: Commodity and Securities Exchanges - Sections changed: 1
Title: 10: Energy - Sections changed: 25
Title: 38: Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief - Sections changed: 1
Title: 39: Postal Service - Sections changed: 2
Title: 40: Protection of Environment - Sections changed: 33
Title: 41: Public Contracts and Property Management - Sections changed: 8
Title: 47: Telecommunication - Sections changed: 1
Title: 50: Wildlife and Fisheries - Sections changed: 4

cfr/title-13-Business-Credit-Assistance/chapter-I-Small-Business-Administration/part-127-WomenOwned-Small-Business-Federal-Contract-Program/subpart-C-Certification-EDWOSB-WOSB-Status/subjectgroup-ECFR36dc5583cbbddcb-Certification/section-127.304.md, after:

##### § 127.304 How is an application for certification processed? #####

(a) The SBA's Director of Government Contracting (D/GC) or designee is authorized to approve or decline applications for certification. SBA must receive all required information and supporting documents before it will begin processing a concern's application. SBA will not process incomplete applications. SBA will advise each applicant within 15 calendar days after the receipt of an application whether the application is complete and suitable for evaluation and, if not, what additional information or clarification is required to complete the application. SBA will make its determination within ninety (90) calendar days after receipt of a complete package, whenever practicable.

(b) SBA may request additional information or clarification of information contained in an application or document submission at any time.

(c) The burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility is on the applicant concern. If a concern does not provide requested information within the allotted time provided by SBA, or if it submits incomplete information, SBA may presume that disclosure of the missing information would adversely affect the business concern's eligibility or demonstrate a lack of eligibility in the area or areas to which the information relates.

(1) If a concern submits inconsistent information that results in SBA's inability to determine the concern's compliance with any of the WOSB or EDWOSB eligibility requirements, SBA will decline the concern's application.

(2) If, during the processing of an application, SBA determines that an applicant or its representative has knowingly submitted false information, regardless of whether correct information would cause SBA to deny the application, and regardless of whether correct information was given to SBA in accompanying documents, SBA will deny the application.

(d) The applicant must be eligible as of the date it submitted its application and up until the time the D/GC issues a decision. The decision will be based on the facts contained in the application, any information received in response to SBA's request for clarification, and any changed circumstances since the date of application.

(e) Any changed circumstances occurring after an applicant has submitted an application will be considered and may constitute grounds for decline. After submitting the application and signed representation, an applicant must notify SBA of any changes that could affect its eligibility. The D/GC may propose decertification for any EDWOSB or WOSB that fails to inform SBA of any changed circumstances that affected its eligibility for the program during the processing of the application.

(f) If SBA approves the application, SBA will send a written notice to the concern and update *https://certify.sba.gov* or any successor system, and update DSBS and the System for Award Management (or any successor systems) to indicate the concern has been certified by SBA as a WOSB and/or EDWOSB.

(g) A decision to deny eligibility must be in writing and state the specific reasons for denial.

(1) If SBA denies a business concern's application for WOSB certification based on lack of ownership or lack of control by women, within two days of SBA's denial, the applicant concern must update its WOSB self-certification status in the System for Award Management (or any successor system) to reflect that the concern is not an eligible WOSB.

(2) If a business concern fails to update its WOSB self-certification status in the System for Award Management (or any successor system), SBA will make such update within two days of the business's failure to do so.

(h) SBA will send a copy of the decision letter to the electronic mail address provided with the application. SBA will consider any decision sent to this electronic mail address provided to have been received by the applicant concern.

(i) The decision of the D/GC to decline certification is the final agency decision. The concern can reapply for certification after ninety (90) days, as set forth in § 127.305.

[85 FR 27661, May 11, 2020, as amended at 88 FR 26214, Apr. 27, 2023]
