##### § 301.6402-3T Special rules applicable to income tax (temporary). #####

(a) through (d) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 301.6402-3(a) through (d).

(e) In the case of a nonresident alien individual or foreign corporation, the appropriate income tax return on which the claim for refund or credit is made must contain the tax identification number of the taxpayer required pursuant to section 6109 and the entire amount of income of the taxpayer subject to tax, even if the tax liability for that income was fully satisfied at source through withholding under chapters 3 or 4 of the Internal Revenue Code (Code). Also, if the overpayment of tax resulted from the withholding of tax at source under chapters 3 or 4 of the Code, a copy of the Form 1042-S, “Foreign Person's U.S. Source Income subject to Withholding,” Form 8805, “Foreign Partner's Information Statement of Section 1446 Withholding Tax,” or other statement (required under § 1.1446-3(d)(2) of this chapter) required to be provided to the beneficial owner or partner pursuant to § 1.1461-1(c)(1)(i), § 1.1474-1(d)(1)(i), or § 1.1446-3(d) of this chapter must be attached to the return. For purposes of claiming a refund, the Form 8805 or other statement must include the taxpayer identification number of the beneficial owner or partner even if not otherwise required. No claim for refund or credit under chapter 65 of the Code may be made by the taxpayer for any amount that the payor has repaid to the taxpayer pursuant to reimbursement or set-off procedures (described in § 1.1461-2(a)(2),(3) or § 1.1474-2(a)(3), (4) of this chapter). In addition, no claim for refund or credit may be made by a taxpayer for any amount that has been repaid to a qualified intermediary (as described in § 1.1441-1(e)(5)(ii)) or a participating FFI (as described in § 1.1471-1(b)(91)) pursuant to a collective refund filed by such entity on behalf of the taxpayer. See § 1.1441-1(e)(5)(iii) (describing a qualified intermediary agreement) and § 1.1471-4(h) (describing a collective refund). Upon request, a taxpayer must also submit such documentation as the IRS, may require establishing that the taxpayer is the beneficial owner of the income for which a claim for refund or credit is being made and verifying the grounds and facts set forth in taxpayer's claim as required by § 301.6402-2(b)(1). See § 1.1474-5 for additional requirements that may apply in the case of a refund of tax withheld under chapter 4.

(f) and (f)(1) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 301.6402-3(f) introductory text and (f)(1).

(2) References in paragraph (e) of this section to amounts withheld under chapter 4 of the Code and claims made with respect to amounts withheld under chapter 4 of the Code shall apply to withholdable payments made after June 30, 2014.

(g) *Expiration date.* The applicability of this section expires on February 28, 2017.

[T.D. 9658, 79 FR 12809, Mar. 6, 2014]