##### ยง 60.1 What is the HEAL program? #####

(a) The Health Education Assistance Loan (HEAL) program is a program of Federal insurance of educational loans to graduate students in the fields of medicine, osteopathic medicine, dentistry, veterinary medicine, optometry, podiatric medicine, pharmacy, public health, chiropractic, health administration and clinical psychology. The basic purpose of the program is to encourage lenders to make loans to students in these fields who desire to borrow money to pay for their educational costs. In addition, certain nonstudents (such as doctors serving as interns or residents) can borrow in order to pay the current interest charges accruing on earlier HEAL loans. By taking a HEAL loan, the borrower is obligated to repay the lender or holder the full amount of the money borrowed, plus all interest which accrues on the loan.

(b) HEAL loans may be made by schools, banks, credit unions, State agencies, and other institutions eligible as lenders under ยง 60.30. HEAL school eligibility is described in ยง 60.50.

(c) The Secretary insures each lender or holder for the losses of principal and interest it may incur in the event that a borrower dies; becomes totally and permanently disabled; files for bankruptcy under chapter 11 or 13 of the Bankruptcy Act; files for bankruptcy under chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Act and files a compliant to determine the dischargeability of the HEAL loan; or defaults on his or her loan. In these instances, if the lender or holder has complied with all HEAL statutes and regulations, and with the lender's or holder's insurance contract, and the Secretary pays the amount of the loss to the lender or holder, the borrower's loan is then assigned to the Secretary. Only at that time, the United States Government becomes the borrower's direct creditor and will actively pursue the borrower for repayment of the debt, including reporting the borrower's default on the loan to consumer credit reporting agencies or to the Internal Revenue Service for purposes of locating such taxpayer or for income tax refund offset, and referral to the Department of Justice for litigation.

(d) Any person who knowingly makes a false statement or misrepresentation in a HEAL loan transaction, bribes or attempts to bribe a Federal official, fraudulently obtains a HEAL loan, or commits any other illegal action in connection with a HEAL loan is subject to possible fine and imprisonment under Federal statute.

(e) *Calculating time periods.* In counting the number of days allowed to comply with any provisions of these regulations, Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays are to be included. However, if a due date falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday, the due date is the next Federal work day.

[48 FR 38988, Aug. 26, 1983, as amended at 52 FR 745, Jan. 8, 1987; 56 FR 42700, Aug. 29, 1991; 57 FR 28793, June 29, 1992]