##### § 7.2014 Indemnification of institution-affiliated parties. #####

Link to an amendment published at 85 FR 83735, Dec. 22, 2020.

(a) *Administrative proceedings or civil actions initiated by Federal banking agencies.* A national bank may only make or agree to make indemnification payments to an institution-affiliated party with respect to an administrative proceeding or civil action initiated by any Federal banking agency, that are reasonable and consistent with the requirements of 12 U.S.C. 1828(k) and the implementing regulations thereunder. The term “institution-affiliated party” has the same meaning as set forth at 12 U.S.C. 1813(u).

(b) *Administrative proceeding or civil actions not initiated by a Federal banking agency* - (1) *General.* In cases involving an administrative proceeding or civil action not initiated by a Federal banking agency, a national bank may indemnify an institution-affiliated party for damages and expenses, including the advancement of expenses and legal fees, in accordance with the law of the state in which the main office of the bank is located, the law of the state in which the bank's holding company is incorporated, or the relevant provisions of the Model Business Corporation Act (1984, as amended 1994, and as amended thereafter), or Delaware General Corporation Law, Del. Code Ann. tit. 8 (1991, as amended 1994, and as amended thereafter), provided such payments are consistent with safe and sound banking practices. A national bank shall designate in its bylaws the body of law selected for making indemnification payments under this paragraph.

(2) *Insurance premiums.* A national bank may provide for the payment of reasonable premiums for insurance covering the expenses, legal fees, and liability of institution-affiliated parties to the extent that the expenses, fees, or liability could be indemnified under paragraph (b)(1) of this section.