##### § 1.704-3T Contributed property (temporary). #####

(a)(1) through (12) [Reserved]. For further guidance, see § 1.704-3(a)(1) through (12).

(13) *Rules for tiered section 721(c) partnerships* - (i) *Revaluations.* If a partnership revalues its property pursuant to § 1.704-1T(b)(2)(iv)(*f*)(*6*) immediately before an interest in the partnership is contributed to another partnership, or if an upper-tier partnership owns an interest in a lower-tier partnership, and both the upper-tier partnership and the lower-tier partnership revalue partnership property pursuant to § 1.704-1T(b)(2)(iv)(*f*)(*6*), the principles of § 1.704-3(a)(9) will apply to any reverse section 704(c) allocations made as a result of the revaluation.

(ii) *Basis-derivative items.* If a lower-tier partnership that is a section 721(c) partnership applies the gain deferral method, then, for purposes of applying this section, the upper-tier partnership must treat its distributive share of lower-tier partnership items of gain, loss, amortization, depreciation, or other cost recovery with respect to the lower-tier partnership's section 721(c) property as though they were items of gain, loss, amortization, depreciation, or other cost recovery with respect to the upper-tier partnership's interest in the lower-tier partnership. For purposes of this paragraph (a)(13)(ii), gain deferral method is defined in § 1.721(c)-1T(b)(8), section 721(c) partnership is defined in § 1.721(c)-1T(b)(14), and section 721(c) property is defined in § 1.721(c)-1T(b)(15).

(b) through (d)(5)(ii) [Reserved]. For further guidance, see § 1.704-3(b) through (d)(5)(ii).

(iii) *Special rules for a section 721(c) partnership and anti-churning property* - (A) *In general.* Solely in the case of a gain deferral contribution of section 721(c) property that is a section 197(f)(9) intangible that was not an amortizable section 197 intangible in the hands of the contributor, the remedial allocation method is modified with respect to allocations to a related person to the U.S. transferor pursuant to paragraphs (d)(5)(iii)(B) through (F) of this section. For purposes of this paragraph (d)(5)(iii), gain deferral contribution is defined in § 1.721(c)-1T(b)(7), related person is defined in § 1.721(c)-1T(b)(12), section 721(c) partnership is defined in § 1.721(c)-1T(b)(14), section 721(c) property is defined in § 1.721(c)-1T(b)(15), and U.S. transferor is defined in § 1.721(c)-1T(b)(18). For an example applying the rules of this paragraph (d)(5)(iii), see § 1.721(c)-7T, *Example 6.*

(B) *Book basis recovery.* The section 721(c) partnership must amortize the portion of the partnership's book value in the section 197(f)(9) intangible that exceeds the adjusted basis in the property upon contribution using any recovery period and amortization method available to the partnership as if the property had been newly purchased by the partnership from an unrelated party.

(C) *Effect of ceiling rule limitations.* If the ceiling rule causes the book allocation of the item of amortization of a section 197(f)(9) intangible under paragraph (d)(5)(iii)(B) of this section by a section 721(c) partnership to a related person with respect to the U.S. transferor to differ from the tax allocation of the same item to the related person (a ceiling rule limited related person), the partnership must not create a remedial item of deduction to allocate to the related person but instead must increase the adjusted basis of the section 197(f)(9) intangible by an amount equal to the difference solely with respect to that related person. The partnership simultaneously must create an offsetting remedial item in an amount identical to the increase in adjusted tax basis of the section 197(f)(9) intangible and allocate it to the contributing partner.

(D) *Effect of basis adjustment* - (*1*) *In general.* The basis adjustment described in paragraph (d)(5)(iii)(C) of this section constitutes an adjustment to the adjusted basis of a section 197(f)(9) intangible with respect to the ceiling rule limited related person only. No adjustment is made to the common basis of partnership property. Thus, for purposes of calculating gain and loss, the ceiling rule limited related person will have a special basis for that section 197(f)(9) intangible. The adjustment to the basis of partnership property under this section has no effect on the partnership's computation of any item under section 703.

(*2*) *Computation of a partner's distributive share of partnership items.* The partnership first computes its items of gain or loss at the partnership level under section 703. The partnership then allocates the partnership items among the partners, including the ceiling rule limited related person, in accordance with section 704, and adjusts the partners' capital accounts accordingly. The partnership then adjusts the ceiling rule limited related person's distributive share of the items of partnership gain or loss, in accordance with paragraph (d)(5)(iii)(D)(*3*) of this section, to reflect the effects of that person's basis adjustment under this section. These adjustments to that person's distributive shares must be reflected on Schedules K and K-1 of the partnership's return (Form 1065) (when otherwise required to be completed) and do not affect that person's capital account.

(*3*) *Effect of basis adjustment in determining items of income, gain, or loss.* The amount of a ceiling rule limited related person's gain or loss from the sale or exchange of a section 197(f)(9) intangible in which that person has a tax basis adjustment is equal to that person's share of the partnership's gain or loss from the sale of the asset (including any remedial allocations under this paragraph (d) and § 1.704-3(d)), minus the amount of that person's tax basis adjustment for the section 197(f)(9) intangible.

(E) *Subsequent transfers* - (*1*) *In general.* Except as provided in paragraph (d)(5)(iii)(E)(*2*) of this section, if a ceiling rule limited related person transfers all or part of its partnership interest, the portion of the basis adjustment for a section 197(f)(9) intangible attributable to the interest transferred is eliminated. The transferor of the partnership interest remains the ceiling rule limited related person with respect to any remaining basis adjustment for the section 197(f)(9) intangible.

(*2*) *Special rules for substituted basis transactions.* Paragraph (d)(5)(iii)(E)(*1*) of this section does not apply to the extent a ceiling rule limited related person transfers its partnership interest in a transaction in which the transferee's basis in the partnership interest is determined in whole or in part by reference to the ceiling rule limited related person's basis in that interest. Instead, in such a case, the transferee succeeds to that portion of the transferor's basis adjustment for a section 197(f)(9) intangible attributable to the interest transferred. In such a case, the basis adjustment in a section 197(f)(9) intangible to which the transferee succeeds is taken into account for purposes of determining the transferee's share of the adjusted basis to the partnership of the partnership's property for purposes of §§ 1.743-1(b) and 1.755-1(b)(5). To the extent a transferee would be required to decrease the adjusted basis of a section 197(f)(9) intangible pursuant to §§ 1.743-1(b)(2) and 1.755-1(b)(5), the decrease first reduces the special basis adjustment described in paragraph (d)(5)(iii)(C) of this section, if any, to which the transferee succeeds.

(F) *Non-amortization of basis adjustment.* Neither the increase to the adjusted basis of a section 197(f)(9) intangible with respect to a ceiling rule limited related person nor the portion of the basis of any property that was determined by reference to such increase is subject to amortization, depreciation, or other cost recovery.

(d)(6) through (f) [Reserved]. For further guidance, see § 1.704-3(d)(6) through (f).

(g) *Certain rules for section 721(c) partnerships* - (1) *Applicability dates* - (i) *In general.* Notwithstanding § 1.704-3(f), except as provided in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of this section, paragraphs (a)(13) and (d)(5)(iii) of this section apply with respect to contributions occurring on or after January 18, 2017, and with respect to contributions occurring before January 18, 2017, resulting from an entity classification election made under § 301.7701-3 of this chapter that is filed on or after January 18, 2017.

(ii) *Election to apply the provisions described in paragraph (g)(1)(i) of this section retroactively.* Paragraphs (a)(13) and (d)(5)(iii) of this section may, by election, be applied with respect to a contribution occurring on or after August 6, 2015, but before January 18, 2017, and with respect to a contribution occurring before August 6, 2015, resulting from an entity classification election made under § 301.7701-3 of this chapter that is filed on or after August 6, 2015. The election is made by applying paragraph (a)(13) or paragraph (d)(5)(iii) of this section, as applicable, on a timely filed original return (including extensions) or an amended return filed no later than six months after January 18, 2017.

(2) *Expiration date.* The applicability of paragraphs (a)(13) and (d)(5)(iii) of this section expires on January 17, 2020.

[T.D. 9814, 82 FR 7598, Jan. 19, 2017]