##### § 1.707-5T Disguised sales of property to partnership; special rules relating to liabilities (temporary). #####

(a)(1) [Reserved]. For further guidance, see § 1.707-5(a)(1).

(2) *Partner's share of liability* - (i) *In general.* For purposes of § 1.707-5, a partner's share of a liability of a partnership, as defined in § 1.752-1(a) (whether a recourse liability or a nonrecourse liability) is determined by applying the same percentage used to determine the partner's share of the excess nonrecourse liability under § 1.752-3(a)(3) (as limited in its application to this paragraph (a)(2)), but such share shall not exceed the partner's share of the partnership liability under section 752 and applicable regulations (as limited in the application of § 1.752-3(a)(3) to this paragraph (a)(2)).

(ii) *Partner's share of § 1.752-7 liability.* [Reserved].

(a)(3) through (e) [Reserved]. For further guidance, see § 1.707-5(a)(3) through (e).

(f) *Example 1* [Reserved]. For further guidance, see § 1.707-5(f) *Example 1.*

Example 2.*Partnership's assumption of recourse liability encumbering transferred property.* (i) C transfers property Y to a partnership in which C has a 50 percent interest. At the time of its transfer to the partnership, property Y has a fair market value of $10,000,000 and is subject to an $8,000,000 liability that C incurred and guaranteed, immediately before transferring property Y to the partnership, in order to finance other expenditures. Upon the transfer of property Y to the partnership the partnership assumed the liability encumbering that property. Under section 752 and the regulations thereunder, immediately after the partnership's assumption of the liability encumbering property Y, the liability is a recourse liability of the partnership and C's share of that liability is $8,000,000.

(ii) Under the facts of this example, the liability encumbering property Y is not a qualified liability. Accordingly, the partnership's assumption of the liability results in a transfer of consideration to C in connection with C's transfer of property Y to the partnership. Notwithstanding C's share of the liability for section 752 purposes, for disguised sale purposes, C's share of the liability immediately after the partnership's assumption is $4,000,000 (50 percent of $8,000,000) under paragraph (a)(2) of this section (which determines a partner's share of a liability using the percentage under § 1.752-3(a)(3)). Therefore, the amount of consideration to C is $4,000,000 (the excess of the liability assumed by the partnership ($8,000,000) over C's share of the liability for purposes of § 1.707-5(a) immediately after the assumption ($4,000,000)). See § 1.707-5(a)(1) and paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

Example 3.*Subsequent reduction of transferring partner's share of liability.* (i) The facts are the same as in *Example 2.* In addition, property Y is a fully leased office building, the rental income from property Y is sufficient to meet debt service, and the remaining term of the liability is ten years. It is anticipated that, three years after the partnership's assumption of the liability, C's share of the liability under paragraph (a)(2) of this section will be reduced to $2,000,000 because of a shift in the allocation of partnership profits pursuant to the terms of the partnership agreement which provide that C's share of the partnership profits will be 25 percent at that time. Under the partnership agreement, this shift in the allocation of partnership profits is dependent solely on the passage of time.

(ii) Under § 1.707-5(a)(3), if the reduction in C's share of the liability was anticipated at the time of C's transfer, was not subject to the entrepreneurial risks of partnership operations, and was part of a plan that has as one of its principal purposes minimizing the extent of sale treatment under § 1.707-3 (that is, a principal purpose of allocating a larger percentage of profits to C in the first three years when profits were not likely to be realized was to minimize the extent to which C's transfer would be treated as part of a sale), C's share of the liability immediately after the partnership's assumption is treated as equal to C's reduced share of $2,000,000. Therefore, the amount of consideration to C is $6,000,000 (the excess of the liability assumed by the partnership ($8,000,000) over C's share of the liability for purposes of § 1.707-5(a) immediately after the assumption ($2,000,000)), taking into account the anticipated reduction in C's share of the liability pursuant to the terms of the partnership agreement. See § 1.707-5(a)(1) and (3) and paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

Examples 4 through 6.[Reserved]. For further guidance, see § 1.707-5(f) *Examples 4* through *6.*Example 7.*Partnership's assumptions of liabilities encumbering properties transferred pursuant to a plan.* (i) Pursuant to a plan, G and H transfer property 1 and property 2, respectively, to an existing partnership in exchange for a one-third interest each in the partnership. At the time the properties are transferred to the partnership, property 1 has a fair market value of $10,000 and an adjusted tax basis of $6,000, and property 2 has a fair market value of $10,000 and an adjusted tax basis of $4,000. At the time properties 1 and 2 are transferred to the partnership, a $6,000 nonrecourse liability (liability 1) is secured by property 1 and a $9,000 recourse liability of H (liability 2) is secured by property 2. Properties 1 and 2 are transferred to the partnership, and the partnership takes property 1 subject to liability 1 and assumes liability 2. After the transfer of liability 2 to the partnership, H bears the economic risk of loss for the entire amount of liability 2 under § 1.752-2. G and H incurred liabilities 1 and 2 immediately prior to transferring properties 1 and 2 to the partnership and used the proceeds for personal expenditures. The liabilities are not qualified liabilities. For disguised sale purposes, assume that G's and H's share of liability 1 is $2,000 each in accordance with paragraph (a)(2) of this section (which determines a partner's share of a liability using the percentage under § 1.752-3(a)(3), but not exceeding the partner's share of the liability under section 752 and applicable regulations). Also, in accordance with paragraph (a)(2) of this section, G's share of liability 2 is zero and H's share of liability 2 is $3,000.

(ii) G and H transferred properties 1 and 2 to the partnership pursuant to a plan. Accordingly, pursuant to § 1.707-5(a)(1) and (4), the partnership's taking property 1 subject to liability 1 is treated as a transfer of only $4,000 of consideration to G (the amount by which liability 1 ($6,000) exceeds G's share of liabilities 1 and 2 ($2,000)), and the partnership's assumption of liability 2 is treated as a transfer of only $4,000 of consideration to H (the amount by which liability 2 ($9,000) exceeds H's share of liabilities 1 and 2 ($5,000)). Under the rule in § 1.707-3, G is treated as having sold $4,000 of the fair market value of property 1 in exchange for the partnership's taking property 1 subject to liability 1, and H is treated as having sold $4,000 of the fair market value of property 2 in exchange for the partnership's assumption of liability 2.

Example 8.*Partnership's assumption of liability pursuant to a plan to avoid sale treatment of partnership assumption of another liability. (i) The facts are the same as in Example 7*, except that -

(A) Liability 2 is a nonrecourse liability;

(B) H transferred the proceeds of liability 2 to the partnership; and

(C) H incurred liability 2 in an attempt to reduce the extent to which the partnership's taking of property 1 subject to liability 1 would be treated as a transfer of consideration to G (and thereby reduce the portion of G's transfer of property 1 to the partnership that would be treated as part of a sale).

(ii) Because the partnership assumed liability 2 with a principal purpose of reducing the extent to which the partnership's taking of property 1 subject to liability 1 would be treated as a transfer of consideration to G, liability 2 is ignored in applying § 1.707-5(a)(1). See § 1.707-5(a)(4). Accordingly, the partnership's taking of property 1 subject to liability 1 is treated as a transfer of $4,000 of consideration to G (the amount by which liability 1 ($6,000) exceeds G's share of liability 1 ($2,000)). Under § 1.707-5(d), the partnership's assumption of liability 2 is not treated as a transfer of any consideration to H because the amount of liability 2 that the partnership is treated as assuming is reduced by the money H transferred to the partnership ($9,000).

Examples 9 through 13.[Reserved]. For further guidance, see § 1.707-5(f) *Examples 9* through *13.*

(g) *Expiration date.* This section expires on October 4, 2019.

[T.D. 9788, 81 FR 69287, Oct. 5, 2016; 81 FR 80994, Nov. 17, 2016]