cfr/title-42-Public-Health/chapter-IV-Centers-Medicare-amp-Medicaid-Services-Department-Health-Human-Services/subchapter-E-Programs-AllInclusive-Care-Elderly-PACE/part-460-Programs-AllInclusive-Care-Elderly-PACE/subpart-B-PACE-Organization-Application-Waiver-Process/section-460.12.md, before:

##### § 460.12 Application requirements. #####

Link to an amendment published at 84 FR 25671, June 3, 2019.

(a) *General.* (1) An individual authorized to act for the entity must submit to CMS a complete application that describes how the entity meets all requirements in this part.

(2) CMS accepts applications from entities that seek approval as PACE organizations beginning on February 22, 2000 except for the following:

(i) Beginning on November 24, 1999, CMS accepts applications from entities that meet the requirements for priority consideration in processing of applications.

(ii) Beginning on January 10, 2000, CMS accepts applications from entities that meet the requirements for special consideration in processing applications.

(b) *State assurance.* An entity's application must be accompanied by an assurance from the State administering agency of the State in which the program is located indicating that the State -

(1) Considers the entity to be qualified to be a PACE organization; and

(2) Is willing to enter into a PACE program agreement with the entity.

[64 FR 66279, Nov. 24, 1999, as amended at 67 FR 61505, Oct. 1, 2002; 71 FR 71334, Dec. 8, 2006]

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2019-08-07 issue
Title: 48: Federal Acquisition Regulations System - Sections changed: 9
Title: 31: Money and Finance: Treasury - Sections changed: 26
Title: 33: Navigation and Navigable Waters - Sections changed: 6
Title: 38: Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief - Sections changed: 3
Title: 39: Postal Service - Sections changed: 5
Title: 40: Protection of Environment - Sections changed: 68
Title: 42: Public Health - Sections changed: 63
Title: 47: Telecommunication - Sections changed: 8
Title: 49: Transportation - Sections changed: 52

cfr/title-42-Public-Health/chapter-IV-Centers-Medicare-amp-Medicaid-Services-Department-Health-Human-Services/subchapter-E-Programs-AllInclusive-Care-Elderly-PACE/part-460-Programs-AllInclusive-Care-Elderly-PACE/subpart-B-PACE-Organization-Application-Waiver-Process/section-460.12.md, after:

##### § 460.12 Application requirements. #####

(a) *Submission of application.* An individual authorized to act for an entity that seeks to become a PACE organization or a PACE organization that seeks to expand its service area and/or add a PACE center site must submit to CMS a complete application in the form and manner specified by CMS that describes how the entity or PACE organization meets all requirements in this part.

(b) *State assurance.* (1) An entity's application to become a PACE organization must include an assurance from the State administering agency of the State in which the program is located indicating that the State considers the entity to be qualified to be a PACE organization and is willing to enter into a PACE program agreement with the entity.

(2) A PACE organization's application to expand its service area and/or add a PACE center site must include an assurance from the State administering agency of the State in which the program is located indicating that the State is willing to amend the PACE program agreement to include the new site and/or expand the PACE organization's service area.

(c) *Service area designation.* (1) An entity submitting an application to become a PACE organization or a PACE organization submitting an application seeking to expand its service area must describe the proposed service area in its application.

(2) CMS, in consultation with the State administering agency, may exclude from designation an area that is already covered under another PACE program agreement to avoid unnecessary duplication of services and avoid impairing the financial and service viability of an existing program.

(d) *Service area and/or PACE center site expansion.* CMS and the State administering agency will only approve a service area expansion or PACE center site expansion after the PACE organization has successfully completed its first trial period audit and, if applicable, has implemented an acceptable corrective action plan.

[84 FR 25671, June 3, 2019]
