##### § 644.435 Procedure. #####

(a) *Fee-owned land.* When fee-owned land for which the department is acting as disposal agency has been found to be surplus to requirements of the Federal Government, has been classified under § 644.426 and disposal is not made to a state, political subdivision, etc., the property will be offered for sale to the highest responsible bidder, except under special circumstances provided in §§ 644.540 through 644.557.

(b) *Easements.* Easements that are readily assignable will be disposed of in the same manner as fee-owned land. Easements will usually be disposed of with land to which they are appurtenant. Easements may be disposed of to the owner of land which is subject to the easement (the servient estate). A determination should be made as to whether the disposal should be with or without reimbursement to the Government on the basis of all the circumstances and factors involved and with due regard to the acquisition cost to the Government. The amount of such reimbursement should be the appraised fair market value of the easement. In the case of disposal of an easement acquired for the deposit of spoil material a minimum charge of $225.00 will be imposed where relinquishment is being accomplished for the benefit of the owner of the servient estate and where no direct benefit will inure to the Government. A statement as to the commercial value will be made when recommending an easement for disposal. The circumstances and factors leading to these determinations shall be documented and retained in the files (FPMR 101-47.313-1).