##### § 644.432 Assignment to Department of Health, Education, and Welfare (HEW) or successor agencies for health or educational purposes. #####

(a) *Authority.* Under section 203(k)(1) of the Federal Property Act of 1949, as amended (40 U.S.C. 484(k)(1)) the Administrator, GSA is authorized, under such regulations as he may prescribe and in his discretion, to assign to the Secretary of HEW for disposal, such surplus real property as is recommended by the Secretary of HEW as being needed for school, classroom, or other educational use, or for use in the protection of public health, including research. The Secretary of HEW is authorized under section 203(k)(1), subject to disapproval by the Administrator, GSA after notice to him from the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare (HEW), to sell or lease surplus real property for such purposes. Pursuant to FPMR 101-47.308-4, a military department, when acting as disposal agency is authorized to assign property to HEW for disposal for education or health purposes and to disapprove, within 30 days after notice, any transfer of property proposed to be made by HEW for such purposes.

(b) *Notice to Department of Health, Education, and Welfare or Successor Agencies.* When real property is reported to GSA for screening prior to disposal by the military department, notification will be given HEW by the GSA Regional Office simultaneously with notification to the District Engineer that the property has been determined surplus to Federal requirements. The District Engineer will furnish such notification directly to the appropriate regional representative of the Department of HEW in the case of nonreportable real property immediately after he determines that the property is surplus to Federal requirements. Such notification will include the following information:

(1) A brief description of the property in sufficient detail to enable a determination of its probable suitability for uses authorized in section 203(k)(1) of the Act.

(2) When the property may be inspected and where and how arrangements may be made for inspection of the property.

(3) That the property will be withheld from advertisement for bids for a period of 20 days from the time of the notification unless the office submitting the notification is sooner informed in writing as to whether the property is needed for school, classroom, or other educational use, or for use in the protection of public health, including research. If within that time notice is received of a known potential need, the property will be held for an additional 45 days or until a certification of need or request for assignment is received, whichever occurs first.

(4) The District Engineer shall not give such notification to HEW on surplus buildings and improvements located on surplus leaseholds where their removal from the site will increase the Government's restoration obligations under the lease. Where such a situation exists and GSA is to screen the property prior to disposal by the Department, GSA should be advised to this effect. Where any surplus buildings and improvements (on leaseholds or fee-owned land) are available for off-site disposal, notification will be given HEW (unless time restrictions prohibit as set out in §§ 644.333 through 644.339 and §§ 644.348 through 644.367) but the notification will include the same restoration obligations as would be placed in a sale of the property to a private party.

(5) During the 20-day period, action will be taken preparatory to advertising the property for sale. All inquiries received concerning acquisition of the property for such purposes from the state, or local agencies, or qualified organizations seeking the purchase of available real property for health or educational purposes will be referred to the appropriate field representatives of HEW. If, within the 20-day period, HEW shall inform the District Engineer of any known potential requirement, the District Engineer will withhold disposition until a certification of need is received but not to exceed 45 days.

(6) Upon receipt from HEW of a certification that the property is needed for educational or public health purposes and a request from HEW for assignment of the property, if the property is available for such purposes, it will be assigned by the responsible District Engineer by letter addressed to the HEW office from which the request for assignment was received, citing the Act and GSA regulations as authority therefor. A copy of such letter of assignment will be furnished to the Regional Office of GSA.

(7) When notification of the proposed disposal is received from HEW, subsequent to assignment, if their is no reason for disapproval of the proposed disposition, notice from the responsible District Engineer to HEW of approval thereof is not necessary. Under section 203(k)(1), approval is automatically given in the absence of notice of disapproval within 30 days from the date of notification of the proposed disposal. If in the request for assignment HEW furnishes the name of the proposed transferee and states that an application from the transferee is on file and that the proposed use by the transferee is one authorized under section 203(k)(1), the District Engineer, in making the assignment to HEW, may state that no objection is interposed to the proposed transfer of the property.

(8) GSA has advised that it is not anticipated that the Corps of Engineers, in acting as the disposal agency, would investigate each request to it by the Department of HEW, because to make such investigations in each case would clearly duplicate the function assigned to the Department of HEW. Doubtful cases would only arise in connection with property for which the highest and best use is industrial or commercial, or where further study may be required by the Federal Government concerning future requirements for the property. In accordance with a further suggestion by GSA, where there is a reasonable doubt as to the propriety of an assignment to HEW or a proposed disposal by it, the request will be referred to GSA for final decision. Such referrals will be made through DAEN-REM.

(9) The District Engineer making the assignment of the property will request HEW to furnish two copies of the sales contract. Upon receipt of these copies, together with a request from HEW that the property be transferred, custody will be given to the grantee or transferee named in the sales contract.