##### § 644.431 Power transmission lines. #####

(a) *Authority.* Pursuant to the provisions of section 13(d) of the Surplus Property Act of 1944, as amended (50 U.S.C., App. 1622(d)), any state, or political subdivision thereof, or any state or Government agency or instrumentality may certify to the disposal agency that a surplus power transmission line and the right of way acquired for its construction is needed for or adaptable to the requirements of a public or cooperative power project. Whenever any property is reported to GSA for screening, it will be assumed that GSA has screened Federal agencies for such purpose and no further screening with such agencies is necessary. Property not reported to GSA for screening will be screened in accordance with §§ 644.333 through 644.339. Screening with the appropriate state agencies will be conducted in all cases.

(b) *Procedure.* Whenever a State, or political subdivision thereof, or state or Federal agency or instrumentality certifies that such property is needed for or adaptable to the requirements of a public or cooperative power project, the property may be sold for such utilization at its appraised fair market value. In the event that a sale cannot be consummated and the certification is not withdrawn, such facts will be reported to DAEN-REM in order that a determination of the action to be taken may be obtained from the Administrator, GSA. If no certification from a state or Federal instrumentality as outlined above is received after proper notice is given, the property may be disposed of in the same manner as other excess or surplus real property.