##### § 229.302 (Item 302) Supplementary financial information. #####

(a) *Disclosure of material quarterly changes.* When there are one or more retrospective changes to the statements of comprehensive income for any of the quarters within the two most recent fiscal years or any subsequent interim period for which financial statements are included or are required to be included by §§ 210.3-01 through 210.3-20 of this chapter (Article 3 of Regulation S-X) that individually or in the aggregate are material, provide an explanation of the reasons for such material changes and disclose, for each affected quarterly period and the fourth quarter in the affected year, summarized financial information related to the statements of comprehensive income as specified in § 210.1-02(bb)(1)(ii) of this chapter (Rule 1-02(bb)(1)(ii) of Regulation S-X) and earnings per share reflecting such changes.

(1) If the financial statements to which this information relates have been reported on by an accountant, appropriate professional standards and procedures, as enumerated in Auditing Standards issued by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“PCAOB”), shall be followed by the reporting accountant with regard to the disclosure required by this paragraph (a).

(2) This paragraph (a) applies to any registrant, except a foreign private issuer, that has securities registered pursuant to sections 12(b) (15 U.S.C. 78l(b)) (other than mutual life insurance companies) or 12(g) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78l(g)) after the registrant's initial registration of securities under these sections.

(3) A registrant that qualifies as a smaller reporting company, as defined by § 229.10(f)(1), is not required to provide the information required by this section.

(b) *Information about oil and gas producing activities.* Registrants engaged in oil and gas producing activities shall present the information about oil and gas producing activities (as those activities are defined in Regulation S-X, § 210.4-10(a)) specified in FASB ASC Topic 932, *Extractive Activities—Oil and Gas,* if such oil and gas producing activities are regarded as significant under one or more of the tests set forth in FASB ASC Subtopic 932-235, *Extractive Activities—Oil and Gas—Notes to Financial Statements,* for ‘Significant Activities.’

*Instruction 1 to paragraph (b).* (a) FASB ASC Subtopic 932-235 disclosures that relate to annual periods shall be presented for each annual period for which a statement of comprehensive income (as defined in § 210.1-02 of Regulation S-X) is required, (b) FASB ASC Subtopic 932-235 disclosures required as of the end of an annual period shall be presented as of the date of each audited balance sheet required, and (c) FASB ASC Subtopic 932-235 disclosures required as of the beginning of an annual period shall be presented as of the beginning of each annual period for which a statement of comprehensive income (as defined in § 210.1-02 of Regulation S-X) is required.*Instruction 2 to paragraph (b).* This paragraph, together with § 210.4-10 of Regulation S-X, prescribes financial reporting standards for the preparation of accounts by persons engaged, in whole or in part, in the production of crude oil or natural gas in the United States, pursuant to Section 503 of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act of 1975 (42 U.S.C. 8383) (“EPCA”) and Section 11(c) of the Energy Supply and Environmental Coordination Act of 1974 (15 U.S.C. 796) (“ESECA”) as amended by Section 506 of EPCA. The application of the paragraph to those oil and gas producing operations of companies regulated for ratemaking purposes on an individual-company-cost-of-service basis may, however, give appropriate recognition to differences arising because of the effect of the ratemaking process.*Instruction 3 to paragraph (b).* Any person exempted by the Department of Energy from any record-keeping or reporting requirements pursuant to Section 11(c) of ESECA, as amended, is similarly exempted from the related provisions of this paragraph in the preparation of accounts pursuant to EPCA. This exemption does not affect the applicability of this paragraph to filings pursuant to the federal securities laws.

(c)*Smaller reporting companies*. A registrant that qualifies as a smaller reporting company, as defined by § 229.10f(1), is not required to provide the information required by this Item.

[47 FR 11401, Mar. 16, 1982, as amended at 47 FR 57914, Dec. 29, 1982; 52 FR 30919, Aug. 18, 1987; 56 FR 30053, July 1, 1991; 64 FR 73402, Dec. 30, 1999; 73 FR 958, Jan. 4, 2008; 74 FR 18617, Apr. 23, 2009; 76 FR 50120, Aug. 12, 2011; 83 FR 50210, Oct. 4, 2018; 86 FR 2126, Jan. 11, 2021]