##### § 319.37-13 Treatment and costs and charges for inspection and treatment; treatments applied outside the United States. #####

(a) The services of a Plant Protection and Quarantine inspector during regularly assigned hours of duty and at the usual places of duty shall be furnished without cost to the importer.11 No charge will be made to the importer for Government owned or controlled special inspection facilities and equipment used in treatment, but the inspector may require the importer to furnish any special labor, chemicals, packing materials, or other supplies required in handling an importation under the regulations in this subpart. The Plant Protection and Quarantine Programs will not be responsible for any costs or charges, other than those indicated in this section.

11 Provisions relating to costs for other services of an inspector are contained in part 354.

(b) Any treatment performed in the United States on a restricted article shall be performed by an inspector or under an inspector's supervision at a government-operated special inspection facility, except that an importer may have such treatment performed at a nongovernmental facility if the treatment is performed at nongovernment expense under the supervision of an inspector and in accordance with any applicable treatment requirements of this subpart and in accordance with any treatment required by an inspector as an emergency measure in order to prevent the dissemination of any quarantine pests. However, treatment may be performed at a nongovernmental facility only in cases of unavailability of government facilities and only if, in the judgment of an inspector, such article can be transported to such nongovernmental facility without the risk of introduction into the United States of quarantine pests.

(c) Any treatment performed outside the United States must be monitored and certified by an APHIS inspector or an official from the plant protection service of the exporting country. If monitored and certified by an official of the plant protection service of the exporting country, then a phytosanitary certificate must be issued with the following declaration: “The consignment of (*fill in botanical name*) has been treated in accordance with 7 CFR part 305.” During the entire interval between treatment and export, the consignment must be stored and handled in a manner that prevents any infestation by quarantine pests.

[45 FR 31585, May 13, 1980, as amended at 57 FR 43148, 43151, Sept. 18, 1992; 60 FR 3077, Jan. 13, 1995; 61 FR 51210, Oct. 1, 1996; 68 FR 50047, Aug. 20, 2003; 70 FR 33324, June 7, 2005; 75 FR 4251, Jan. 26, 2010; 76 FR 31210, May 27, 2011; 76 FR 67583, Nov. 2, 2011; 79 FR 19810, Apr. 10, 2014]