##### § 1416.103 Eligible losses, adverse weather, and other loss conditions. #####

(a) An eligible loss covered under this subpart is a loss that an eligible producer or contract grower of livestock, honeybees, or farm-raised fish incurs due to an eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition, as determined by the Deputy Administrator.

(b) A loss covered under LFP or LIP is not eligible for ELAP.

(c) To be eligible, the loss must have occurred during the program year for which payment is being requested.

(d) For a livestock feed loss to be considered an eligible loss, the livestock feed loss must be one of the following:

(1) Loss of purchased forage or feedstuffs that was intended for use as feed for the participant's eligible livestock as specified in § 1416.104(a) that was physically located in the county where the eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition occurred on the beginning date of the eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition. The loss must be due to an eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition, as determined by the Deputy Administrator, including, but not limited to, blizzard, eligible winter storms, flood, hurricane, lightning, tidal surge, tornado, volcanic eruption, or wildfire on non-Federal land;

(2) Loss of mechanically harvested forage or feedstuffs intended for use as feed for the participant's eligible livestock as specified in § 1416.104(a) that was physically located in the county where the eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition occurred on the beginning date of the eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition. The loss must have occurred after harvest due to an eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition, as determined by the Deputy Administrator, including, but not limited to, blizzard, eligible winter storms, flood, hurricane, lightning, tidal surge, tornado, volcanic eruption, or wildfire on non-Federal land;

(3) A loss resulting from the additional cost of purchasing additional livestock feed, above normal quantities, required to maintain the eligible livestock as specified in § 1416.104(a) during an eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition, until additional livestock feed becomes available, as determined by the Deputy Administrator. To be eligible, the additional feed purchased above normal quantities must be feed that is fed to maintain livestock in the county where the eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition occurred. Eligible adverse weather or eligible loss conditions, as determined by the Deputy Administrator, including, but not limited to, blizzard, eligible winter storms, flood, hurricane, lightning, tidal surge, tornado, volcanic eruption, or wildfire on non-Federal land;

(4) A loss resulting from the additional cost incurred for transporting livestock feed to eligible livestock as specified in § 1416.104(a) due to an eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition, as determined by the Deputy Administrator, including, but not limited to, costs associated with equipment rental fees for hay lifts and snow removal. To be eligible, the loss must be incurred in combination with a loss described in paragraphs (d)(1), (2), or (3) of this section. The additional costs incurred must have been incurred for losses suffered in the county where the eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition occurred. Eligible adverse weather or eligible loss conditions, as determined by the Deputy Administrator, include, but not limited to, blizzard, eligible winter storms, flood, hurricane, lightning, tidal surge, tornado, volcanic eruption, or wildfire on non-Federal land;

(5) For 2014 and subsequent program years, a loss resulting from the additional cost of transporting water to eligible livestock as specified in § 1416.104(a) due to an eligible drought, including, but not limited to, costs associated with water transport equipment rental fees, labor, and contracted water transportation fees. The cost of the water is not eligible for payment. Transporting water to livestock located on land enrolled in CRP is not an eligible loss under this program. To be eligible for additional cost of transporting water to eligible livestock, the livestock must be on eligible grazing lands that meet all of the following:

(i) Physically located in the county where the eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition occurred;

(ii) That had adequate livestock watering systems or facilities before the eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition occurred; and

(iii) That the producer is not normally required to transport water to the grazing land.

(e) For a grazing loss to be considered eligible, the grazing loss must have been incurred:

(1) During the normal grazing period, as specified in § 1416.102;

(2) On eligible grazing land that is physically located in the county where the eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition occurred;

(3) Due to an eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition, as determined by the Deputy Administrator, including, but not limited to, blizzard, eligible winter storm, flood, hurricane, hail, lightning, tidal surge, volcanic eruption, and wildfire on non-Federal land. The grazing loss will not be eligible if it is due to an adverse weather condition covered by LFP as specified in subpart C of this part, such as drought or wildfire on federally managed land where the producer is prohibited by the Federal agency from grazing the normally permitted livestock on the managed rangeland due to a fire.

(f) For a loss resulting from the additional cost associated with gathering livestock to treat for cattle tick fever, the livestock treated for cattle tick fever must be considered eligible livestock as specified in § 1416.104(d). To be considered an eligible loss, acceptable records, as determined by the Deputy Administrator, must be on file with APHIS, that provide the number of livestock treated for cattle tick fever and the number of treatments given during the program year.

(g) For a loss due to livestock death to be considered eligible, the livestock death must have occurred in the county where the eligible loss condition occurred. The livestock death must be in excess of normal mortality and due to an eligible loss condition determined as eligible by the Deputy Administrator and not related to eligible adverse weather, as specified in subpart D of this part for LIP.

(h) For honeybee feed or farm-raised fish feed losses to be considered an eligible loss, the honeybee feed or farm-raised fish feed loss must be one of the following:

(1) Loss of honeybee feed or farm-raised fish feed that was intended as feed for the participant's eligible honeybees or farm-raised fish that was physically located in the county where the eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition occurred on the beginning date of the eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition. The loss must be due to an eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition, as determined by the Deputy Administrator, including, but not limited to, earthquake, flood, hurricane, lightning, tidal surge, tornado, volcanic eruption, and wildfire.

(2) A loss resulting from the additional cost of purchasing additional honeybee feed, above normal quantities, required to maintain the honeybees during an eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition, until additional honeybee feed becomes available, as determined by the Deputy Administrator. To be eligible the additional feed purchased above normal quantities must be feed that is fed to maintain honeybees in the county where the eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition occurred. The loss must be due to an eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition, as determined by the Deputy Administrator, including, but not limited to, earthquake, early fall frost, excessive rainfall, flood, hurricane, late spring frost, lightning, tidal surge, tornado, volcanic eruption, wildfire and eligible drought, as specified in § 1416.102.

(i) For honeybee colony or honeybee hive losses to be considered eligible, the hive producer must have incurred the loss in the county where the eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition occurred. The honeybee colony or hive losses must be due to an eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition, as determined by the Deputy Administrator, including, but not limited to, colony collapse disorder, earthquake, eligible winter storm, as specified in § 1416.102, excessive wind, flood, hurricane, lightning, tornado, volcanic eruption, and wildfire. To be considered an eligible honeybee colony loss, the colony loss must be in excess of normal mortality, as established by the Deputy Administrator, and the loss could not have been prevented through reasonable and available measures. Acceptable documentation must be provided upon request by FSA to demonstrate an eligible loss occurred, was associated with an eligible adverse weather event or loss condition, and that generally accepted husbandry and production practices had been followed.

(j) For death losses of bait fish, game fish, or other aquatic species, as determined by the Deputy Administrator, to be considered eligible, the producer must have incurred the fish loss, in excess of normal mortality, in the county where the eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition occurred. The fish death must be due to an eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition as determined by the Deputy Administrator including, but not limited to, earthquake, flood, hurricane, tidal surge, tornado, and volcanic eruption.