##### § 806.4 Definitions. #####

(a) *Electronic reading room (ERR).* Rooms established on Internet web sites for public access to FOIA-processed (a)(2)(D) records.

(b) *FOIA request.* This includes FOIA requests made by members of Congress either on their own behalf or on behalf of one of their constituents. Process FOIA requests from members of Congress in accordance with this Air Force supplement. Air Force-affiliated requesters, to include military and civilian employees, should not use government equipment, supplies, stationery, postage, telephones, or official mail channels to make FOIA requests.

(1) Simple requests can be processed quickly with limited impact on the responding units. The request clearly identifies the records with no (or few) complicating factors involved. There are few or no responsive records. Only one installation is involved and there are no outside Office of Primary Responsibility (OPRs). There are no classified or nongovernment records. No deliberative process/privileged materials are involved. The responsive records contain no (or limited) personal privacy information and do not come from a Privacy Act system of records. No time extensions are anticipated.

(2) Complex requests take substantial time and cause significant impact on responding units. Complications and delays are likely. Records sought are massive in volume. Multiple organizations must review/coordinate on requested records. Records are classified; originated with a nongovernment source; are part of the Air Force's decision-making process; or are privileged.

(c) *Government Information Locator Service (GILS).* GILS is an automated on-line card catalog of publicly accessible information. The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Bulletin 95-01, December 7, 1994, and OMB Memorandum, February 6, 1998, mandates that all federal agencies create a GILS record for information available to the public. The DoD GILS resides on DefenseLINK, the official DoD home page, at *http://www.defenselink.mil/locator/index.html.*

(d) *Initial denial authority.* Only approved IDAs may deny all or parts of records. FOIA managers may: initially deny fee category claims, requests for expedited processing, and waiver or reduction of fees; review fee estimates; and sign “no records” responses. IDAs are the deputy chiefs of staff and chiefs of comparable offices or higher at HQ USAF and Secretary of the Air Force (SAF), and MAJCOM commanders. Deputy Chiefs of Staff and chiefs of comparable offices or higher at HQ USAF and SAF may name one additional position as denial authority. MAJCOM commanders may appoint two additional positions at the headquarters and also the wing commander at base level. MAJCOM IGs and MAJCOM Directors of Inquiries (IGQ) may act as IDAs for IG records. MAJCOM FOIA managers must notify HQ AFCIC/ITC in writing (by facsimile, e-mail, or regular mail) of IDA position titles. Send position titles only - no names. HQ AFCIC/ITC sends SAF/IGQ a copy of the correspondence designating IDA positions for IG records. When the commander changes the IDA designee position, MAJCOM FOIA managers will advise HQ AFCIC/ITC immediately. In the absence of the designated IDA, the individual filling/assuming that position acts as an IDA, however; all denial documentation must reflect the position title of the approved or designated IDA, even if in an acting capacity (for example, Acting Director of Communications and Information, Headquarters Air Combat Command).

(e) *Office of primary responsibility (OPR).* A DoD element that either prepared, or is responsible for, records identified as responsive to a FOIA request. OPRs coordinate with the office of corollary responsibility (OCR) and FOIA managers to assist IDAs in making decisions on FOIA requests.

(f) *OCR.* A DoD element with an official interest in, and/or collateral responsibility for, the contents of records identified as responsive to a FOIA request, even though those records were either prepared by, or are the primary responsibility of, a different DoD element. OCRs coordinate with OPRs and FOIA managers to assist IDAs in making decisions on FOIA requests.

(g) *Appellate authority.* The SAF has designated the Deputy General Counsel, Fiscal, Ethics, and Civilian Personnel (SAF/GCA) as the FOIA appellate authority.

(h) *Reading room.* Any place where a member of the public may view FOIA records.