##### § 806.20 Records of non-U.S. government source. #####

(a) The Air Force, in compliance with Executive Order 12600, will advise submitters of contractor-submitted records when a FOIA requester seeks the release of such records, regardless of any initial determination as to whether FOIA exemption (b)(4) applies. See § 806.15(c) and § 806.31. Due to a change to 48 CFR, submitter notification is not required prior to release of unit prices contained in contracts awarded based upon solicitations issued after January 1, 1998. For solicitations issued before January 1, 1998, conduct a normal submitter notice. Unit prices contained in proposals provided prior to contract award are protected from release, as are all portions of unsuccessful proposals (before and after contract award) (10 U.S.C. 2305(g)).

(b) Department of State involvement. Air Force FOIA managers will notify their MAJCOM (or equivalent) FOIA office, in writing, via fax or e-mail when the Department of State becomes involved in any Air Force FOIA actions. The MAJCOM FOIA office will provide 11 CS/SCSR, via fax or e-mail, a summary of the issues involved, and the name, phone number, mailing address and e-mail address of: their own FOIA office point of contact; the Air Force record OPR point of contact, the DoD component FOIA office point of contact (if any), and the Department of State point of contact. 11 CS/SCSR will inform SAF/IA of any State Department involvement in Air Force FOIA actions. (See § 806.7(b).) An example of a memo advising 11 CS/SCSR of State Department involvement in an Air Force FOIA action is provided in § 806.27.