##### § 319.56-66 Potatoes from Mexico. #####

Fresh potatoes (*Solanum tuberosum* L.) may be imported into the United States from Mexico only under the conditions described in this section. These conditions are designed to prevent the introduction of the following quarantine pests: *Copitarsia decolora* (Guenée), a moth; *Epicaerus cognatus* Sharp, potato weevil; *Globodera rostochiensis,* golden cyst nematode; *Nacobbus aberrans* (Thorne) Thorne & Allen, false root-knot nematode; *Ralstonia solanacearum* race 3 biovar 2 (Smith) Yabuuchi *et al.,* a bacterium that causes brown rot of potato; *Rosellinia bunodes* (Berk. & Broome) Sacc., a pathogenic fungus; *R. pepo* Pat., a pathogenic fungus; *Synchytrium endobioticum* (Schilb.) Percival, a pathogenic fungus that causes potato wart disease; and *Thecaphora solani* (Thirum. & M. O'Brien) Mordue, a pathogenic fungus that causes potato smut.

(a) The national plant protection organization (NPPO) of Mexico must provide a bilateral workplan to APHIS that details the activities that the NPPO of Mexico will, subject to APHIS' approval of the workplan, carry out to meet the requirements of this section. The bilateral workplan must include and describe the quarantine pest survey intervals and other specific requirements as set forth in this section.

(b) The potatoes may be imported in commercial consignments only.

(c) The potatoes must be produced by a grower who is registered in a certification program administered by the NPPO of Mexico. The program must require the producer to use only seed that has been certified by the NPPO of Mexico as free of *R. solanacearum* race 3 biovar 2, *R. bunodes,**R. pepo,**S. endobioticum,* and *T. solani* to produce the potatoes. The program must also require the potatoes to be grown in an enclosed environment or alternatively must require the field in which the potatoes are grown to be surveyed for quarantine pests and tested for *R. solanacearum* race 3 biovar 2 at regular intervals in accordance with the bilateral workplan.

(d) The potatoes must be packed for export in packinghouses that are registered with the NPPO of Mexico and to which the NPPO of Mexico has assigned a unique identifying number.

(e) After harvest but prior to packing, the potatoes must be washed, cleaned of soil and debris, and treated with a sprout inhibitor in accordance with the bilateral workplan.

(f) A biometric sample of potatoes must be taken from each consignment of potatoes destined for export to the United States in accordance with a protocol jointly agreed upon by APHIS and the NPPO of Mexico and specified within the bilateral workplan. The sample must be visually inspected for evidence of sprouting, as well as evidence of *C. decolora,**E. cognatus,**N. aberrans,**R. bunodes,**R. pepo,* and *T. solani.* A portion of the potatoes must then be cut open, inspected for evidence of *E. cognatus,**N. aberrans,**R. solanacearum* race 3 biovar 2, and *T. solani,* and submitted to a laboratory approved by the NPPO of Mexico for testing for *R. solanacearum* race 3 biovar 2. Potatoes may not be shipped to the United States until the results of this testing are obtained. If any potatoes are found to be sprouting, or any evidence of these quarantine pests is found, or any potatoes have non-negative test results for *R. solanacearum* race 3 biovar 2, the entire consignment of potatoes will be prohibited from importation into the United States. For purposes of this section, a potato is considered to be sprouting when it exhibits green sprouts, regardless of the degree of elongation of the sprout.

(g) Each consignment of potatoes shipped from Mexico to the United States must be transported following inspection from the packinghouse to the port of first arrival into the United States in a means of conveyance sealed with an agricultural seal affixed by an individual authorized by the NPPO of Mexico to do so. If the seal is broken en route, an inspector at the port of first arrival will take remedial measures jointly agreed to by APHIS and the NPPO of Mexico and specified in the bilateral workplan.

(h) Each consignment of potatoes shipped from Mexico to the United States must be accompanied by a phytosanitary certificate, issued by the NPPO of Mexico, that states that the potatoes have been produced in accordance with this section, and have been inspected and tested and found free of the quarantine pests listed in the introduction to this section. The phytosanitary certificate must also specify the number of the packinghouse in which the potatoes were packed.

(i) If quarantine pests are discovered on potatoes from Mexico at a port of first arrival into the United States, the potatoes will be traced back to the packinghouse in which they were packed using the packinghouse number specified on the phytosanitary certificate.

(1) The packinghouse must identify the grower from which the potatoes originated, and the grower must identify the place of production in which the potatoes were grown. That place of production will be suspended from the export program for potatoes to the United States for at least the remainder of the shipping season. The suspension will continue into subsequent shipping seasons until APHIS and the NPPO of Mexico jointly agree that the plant pest risk at the place of production is adequately mitigated.

(2) If the grower is unable to identify the place of production in which the potatoes were grown, that grower will be suspended from the export program for potatoes to the United States for at least the remainder of the shipping season. The suspension will continue into subsequent shipping seasons until the APHIS and the NPPO of Mexico jointly agree that the plant pest risk at the grower is adequately mitigated.

(3) If the packinghouse is unable to identify the grower from which the potatoes originated, that packinghouse will be suspended from the export program for potatoes to the United States for at least the remainder of the shipping season. The suspension will continue into subsequent shipping seasons until the APHIS and the NPPO of Mexico jointly agree that the plant pest risk at the packinghouse is adequately mitigated.

[79 FR 16655, Mar. 26, 2014]