##### ยง 102.45 Administrative law judge's decision; contents; service; transfer of case to the Board; contents of record in case. #####

(a) After hearing for the purpose of taking evidence upon a complaint, the administrative law judge shall prepare a decision. Such decision shall contain findings of fact, conclusions, and the reasons or basis therefor, upon all material issues of fact, law, or discretion presented on the record, and shall contain recommendations as to what disposition of the case should be made, which may include, if it be found that the respondent has engaged in or is engaging in the alleged unfair labor practices, a recommendation for such affirmative action by the respondent as will effectuate the policies of the Act. The administrative law judge shall file the original of his decision with the Board and cause a copy thereof to be served on each of the parties. If the administrative law judge delivers a bench decision, promptly upon receiving the transcript the judge shall certify the accuracy of the pages of the transcript containing the decision; file with the Board a certified copy of those pages, together with any supplementary matter the judge may deem necessary to complete the decision; and cause a copy thereof to be served on each of the parties. Upon the filing of the decision, the Board shall enter an order transferring the case to the Board and shall serve copies of the order, setting forth the date of such transfer, on all the parties. Service of the administrative law judge's decision and of the order transferring the case to the Board shall be complete upon mailing.

(b) The charge upon which the complaint was issued and any amendments thereto, the complaint and any amendments thereto, notice of hearing, answer and any amendments thereto, motions, rulings, orders, the stenographic report of the hearing, stipulations, exhibits, documentary evidence, and depositions, together with the administrative law judge's decision and exceptions, and any cross-exceptions or answering briefs as provided in ยง 102.46, shall constitute the record in the case.

[28 FR 7973, Aug. 6, 1963, as amended at 59 FR 65945, Dec. 22, 1994; 61 FR 6942, Feb. 23, 1996]