cfr/title-43-Public-Lands-Interior/subtitle-B-Regulations-Relating-Public-Lands/chapter-II-Bureau-Land-Management-Department-Interior/subchapter-B-Land-Resource-Management-2000/part-2800-RightsofWay-Under-Federal-Land-Policy-Management-Act/subpart-2807-Grant-Administration-Operation/section-2807.22.md, before:

##### § 2807.22 How do I renew my grant? #####

Link to an amendment published at 81 FR 92223, December 19, 2016.

(a) If your grant specifies that it is renewable, and you choose to renew it, you must apply to BLM to renew the grant at least 120 calendar days before your grant expires. BLM will renew the grant if you are complying with the terms, conditions, and stipulations of the grant and applicable laws and regulations.

(b) If your grant does not address whether it is renewable, you may apply to BLM to renew the grant. You must send BLM your application at least 120 calendar days before your grant expires. In your application you must show that you are complying with the terms, conditions, and stipulations of the grant and applicable laws and regulations. BLM has the discretion to renew the grant if doing so is in the public interest.

(c) Submit your application under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section and include the same information necessary for a new application (*see* subpart 2804 of this part). You must reimburse BLM in advance for the administrative costs of processing the renewal in accordance with § 2804.14 of this part.

(d) BLM will review your application and determine the applicable terms and conditions of any renewed grant.

(e) BLM will not renew grants issued before October 21, 1976. If you hold such a grant and would like to continue to use the right-of-way beyond your grant's expiration date, you must apply to BLM for a new FLPMA grant (*see* subpart 2804 of this part). You must send BLM your application at least 120 calendar days before your grant expires.

(f) If BLM denies your application, you may appeal the decision under § 2801.10 of this part.

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2017-07-26 issue
Title: 14: Aeronautics and Space - Sections changed: 3
Title: 10: Energy - Sections changed: 4
Title: 26: Internal Revenue - Sections changed: 12
Title: 38: Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief - Sections changed: 1
Title: 43: Public Lands: Interior - Sections changed: 14

cfr/title-43-Public-Lands-Interior/subtitle-B-Regulations-Relating-Public-Lands/chapter-II-Bureau-Land-Management-Department-Interior/subchapter-B-Land-Resource-Management-2000/part-2800-RightsofWay-Under-Federal-Land-Policy-Management-Act/subpart-2807-Grant-Administration-Operation/section-2807.22.md, after:

##### § 2807.22 How do I renew my grant or lease? #####

(a) If your grant or lease specifies the terms and conditions for its renewal, and you choose to renew it, you must request a renewal from the BLM at least 120 calendar days before your grant or lease expires consistent with the renewal terms and conditions specified in your grant or lease. We will renew the grant or lease if you are in compliance with the renewal terms and conditions; the other terms, conditions, and stipulations of the grant or lease; and other applicable laws and regulations.

(b) If your grant or lease does not specify the terms and conditions for its renewal, you may apply to us to renew the grant or lease. You must send us your application at least 120 calendar days before your grant or lease expires. In your application you must show that you are in compliance with the terms, conditions, and stipulations of the grant or lease and other applicable laws and regulations, and explain why a renewal of your grant or lease is necessary. We may approve or deny your application to renew your grant or lease.

(c) Submit your application under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section and include the same information necessary for a new application (*see* subpart 2804 of this part). You must reimburse BLM in advance for the administrative costs of processing the renewal in accordance with § 2804.14 of this part.

(d) We will review your application and determine the applicable terms and conditions of any renewed grant or lease.

(e) BLM will not renew grants issued before October 21, 1976. If you hold such a grant and would like to continue to use the right-of-way beyond your grant's expiration date, you must apply to BLM for a new FLPMA grant (*see* subpart 2804 of this part). You must send BLM your application at least 120 calendar days before your grant expires.

(f) If you make a timely and sufficient application for a renewal of your existing grant or lease, or for a new grant or lease, in accordance with this section, the existing grant does not expire until we have issued a decision to approve or deny the application.

(g) If BLM denies your application, you may appeal the decision under § 2801.10 of this part.

[70 FR 21058, Apr. 22, 2005, as amended at 81 FR 92223, Dec. 19, 2016]
