##### § 1.923-1T Temporary regulations; exempt foreign trade income. #####

(a) *Foreign trade income.* Foreign trade income of a FSC is the FSC's gross income attributable to its foreign trading gross receipts. (Any further reference to a FSC in this section shall include a small FSC unless indicated otherwise.) If the FSC is the principal on the sale of export property which it purchased from a related supplier, the FSC's gross income is determined by subtracting from its foreign trading gross receipts the transfer price determined under the transfer pricing methods of section 925(a). If the FSC is the commission agent on the sale of export property by its related supplier, the FSC's gross income is the commission paid or payable by the related supplier to the FSC with respect to the transactions that would have generated foreign trading gross receipts had the FSC been the principal on the transaction. See § 1.925(a)-1T(f) *Examples 1* and *6* for illustrations of the computation of a FSC's foreign trade income, exempt foreign trade income and taxable income.

(b) *Exempt foreign trade income* - (1) *Determination.* (i) If a FSC uses either of the two administrative pricing rules, provided for by sections 925(a)(1) and (2), to determine its income from a transaction, or group of transactions, to which section 925 applies (see § 1.925(a)-1T(b)(2) (ii) and (iii)), 15/23 of the foreign trade income that it earns from the transaction, or group of transactions, will be exempt foreign trade income. If a FSC has a non-corporate shareholder (shareholders), 16/23 of its foreign trade income attributable to the noncorporate shareholder's (shareholders') proportionate interest in the FSC will be exempt foreign trade income. See section 291(a)(4).

(ii) If a FSC does not use the administrative pricing rules to determine its income from a transaction, or group of transactions, which gives rise to foreign trade income, 30 percent of its foreign trade income will be exempt foreign trade income. If a FSC has a non-corporate shareholder (shareholders), 32 percent of its foreign trade income attributable to the non-corporate shareholder's (shareholders') proportionate interest in the FSC will be exempt foreign trade income. See section 291(a)(4).

(iii) Exempt foreign trade income so determined under subdivisions (1)(i) and (ii) of this paragraph is treated as foreign source income which is not effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business within the United States. See section 921(a).

(2) *Special rule for foreign trade income allocable to a qualified cooperative.* (i) Pursuant to section 923(a)(4), if a qualified cooperative is a shareholder of a FSC, the FSC's non-exempt foreign trade income determined by use of either of the administrative pricing methods of section 925(a)(1) or (2) which is allocable to the marketing of agricultural or horticultural products, or the providing of related services, for any taxable year will be treated as exempt foreign trade income to the extent that it is distributed to the qualified cooperative shareholder. A qualified cooperative is defined as any organization to which chapter 1, subchapter T, part 1 of the Code applies. See section 1381(a).

(ii) This special rule of section 923(a)(4) shall apply only if the distribution is made before the due date under section 6072(b), including extensions, for filing the FSC's income tax return for that year. Any distribution which satisfies this requirement will be treated as made on the last day of the FSC's taxable year. In addition, this special rule shall apply only if the income of the cooperative is based on arm's length transactions between the cooperative and its members or patrons.

(iii) Income attributable to the marketing of agricultural or horticultural products, or the providing of related services, shall be allocated to the FSC shareholders on a per share basis. See § 1.926(a)-1T(b) for ordering rules for distributions from a FSC.

(3) *Special rule for military property.* (i) Under section 923(a)(5), the exempt foreign trade income of a FSC relating to the disposition of, or services relating to, military property shall be equal to 50 percent of the amount which, but for section 923(a)(5), would be treated as exempt foreign trade income under section 923(a)(2) or (3). The foreign trade income no longer treated as exempt because of this special rule of section 923(a)(5) will remain income of the FSC and will be treated as non-exempt foreign trade income.

(ii) The term “military property” is defined in section 995(b)(3)(B) and includes any property which is an arm, ammunition, or implement of war designated in the munitions list published pursuant to section 38 of the International Security Assistance and Arms Export Control Act of 1976 (22 U.S.C. 2778) (which repealed and replaced the Military Security Act of 1954).

[T.D. 8126, 52 FR 6438, Mar. 3, 1987]