##### § 200.57 Factors for determining equitable participation of private school children. #####

(a) *Equal expenditures.* (1) Funds expended by an LEA under subpart A of this part for services for eligible private school children in the aggregate must be equal to the amount of funds generated by private school children from low-income families under paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

(2) An LEA must meet this requirement as follows:

(i)(A) If the LEA reserves funds under § 200.77 to provide instructional and related activities for public elementary or secondary school students at the district level, the LEA must also provide from those funds, as applicable, equitable services to eligible private school children.

(B) The amount of funds available to provide equitable services from the applicable reserved funds must be proportionate to the number of private school children from low-income families residing in participating public school attendance areas.

(ii) The LEA must reserve the funds generated by private school children under § 200.78 and, in consultation with appropriate officials of the private schools, may -

(A) Combine those amounts, along with funds under paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section, if appropriate, to create a pool of funds from which the LEA provides equitable services to eligible private school children, in the aggregate, in greatest need of those services; or

(B) Provide equitable services to eligible children in each private school with the funds generated by children from low-income families under § 200.78 who attend that private school.

(b) *Services on an equitable basis.* (1) The services that an LEA provides to eligible private school children must be equitable in comparison to the services and other benefits that the LEA provides to public school children participating under subpart A of this part.

(2) Services are equitable if the LEA -

(i) Addresses and assesses the specific needs and educational progress of eligible private school children on a comparable basis as public school children;

(ii) Meets the equal expenditure requirements under paragraph (a) of section; and

(iii) Provides private school children with an opportunity to participate that -

(A) Is equitable to the opportunity provided to public school children; and

(B) Provides reasonable promise of the private school children achieving the high levels called for by the State's student academic achievement standards or equivalent standards applicable to the private school children.

(3)(i) The LEA may provide services to eligible private school children either directly or through arrangements with another LEA or a third-party provider.

(ii) If the LEA contracts with a third-party provider -

(A) The provider must be independent of the private school and of any religious organization; and

(B) The contract must be under the control and supervision of the LEA.

(4) After timely and meaningful consultation under § 200.63, the LEA must make the final decisions with respect to the services it will provide to eligible private school children.

(Authority: 20 U.S.C. 6320)[67 FR 71732, Dec. 2, 2002. Redesignated at 81 FR 86241, Nov. 29, 2016]