##### § 1.1310 Radiofrequency radiation exposure limits. #####

Link to an amendment published at 85 FR 18145, Apr. 1, 2020.

(a) Specific absorption rate (SAR) shall be used to evaluate the environmental impact of human exposure to radiofrequency (RF) radiation as specified in § 1.1307(b) within the frequency range of 100 kHz to 6 GHz (inclusive).

(b) The SAR limits for occupational/controlled exposure are 0.4 W/kg, as averaged over the whole body, and a peak spatial-average SAR of 8 W/kg, averaged over any 1 gram of tissue (defined as a tissue volume in the shape of a cube). Exceptions are the parts of the human body treated as extremities, such as hands, wrists, feet, ankles, and pinnae, where the peak spatial-average SAR limit for occupational/controlled exposure is 20 W/kg, averaged over any 10 grams of tissue (defined as a tissue volume in the shape of a cube). Exposure may be averaged over a time period not to exceed 6 minutes to determine compliance with occupational/controlled SAR limits.

(c) The SAR limits for general population/uncontrolled exposure are 0.08 W/kg, as averaged over the whole body, and a peak spatial-average SAR of 1.6 W/kg, averaged over any 1 gram of tissue (defined as a tissue volume in the shape of a cube). Exceptions are the parts of the human body treated as extremities, such as hands, wrists, feet, ankles, and pinnae, where the peak spatial-average SAR limit is 4 W/kg, averaged over any 10 grams of tissue (defined as a tissue volume in the shape of a cube). Exposure may be averaged over a time period not to exceed 30 minutes to determine compliance with general population/uncontrolled SAR limits.

(d)(1) Evaluation with respect to the SAR limits in this section and in § 2.1093 of this chapter must demonstrate compliance with both the whole-body and peak spatial-average limits using technically supportable methods and exposure conditions in advance of authorization (licensing or equipment certification) and in a manner that permits independent assessment.

(2) At operating frequencies less than or equal to 6 GHz, the limits for maximum permissible exposure (MPE), derived from whole-body SAR limits and listed in Table 1 of paragraph (e) of this section, may be used instead of whole-body SAR limits as set forth in paragraph (a) through (c) of this section to evaluate the environmental impact of human exposure to RF radiation as specified in § 1.1307(b), except for portable devices as defined in § 2.1093 as these evaluations shall be performed according to the SAR provisions in § 2.1093 of this chapter.

(3) At operating frequencies above 6 GHz, the MPE limits shall be used in all cases to evaluate the environmental impact of human exposure to RF radiation as specified in § 1.1307(b).

(4) Both the MPE limits listed in Table 1 of paragraph (e) of this section and the SAR limits as set forth in paragraph (a) through (c) of this section and in § 2.1093 of this chapter are for continuous exposure, that is, for indefinite time periods. Exposure levels higher than the limits are permitted for shorter exposure times, as long as the average exposure over the specified averaging time in Table 1 is less than the limits. Detailed information on our policies regarding procedures for evaluating compliance with all of these exposure limits can be found in the FCC's *OET Bulletin 65,* “Evaluating Compliance with FCC Guidelines for Human Exposure to Radiofrequency Electromagnetic Fields,” and in supplements to *Bulletin 65,* all available at the FCC's Internet Web site: *http://www.fcc.gov/oet/rfsafety.*

*Note to paragraphs (a) through (d):* SAR is a measure of the rate of energy absorption due to exposure to RF electromagnetic energy. The SAR limits to be used for evaluation are based generally on criteria published by the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) for localized SAR in § 4.2 of “IEEE Standard for Safety Levels with Respect to Human Exposure to Radio Frequency Electromagnetic Fields, 3 kHz to 300 GHz,” ANSI/IEEE Std C95.1-1992, copyright 1992 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc., New York, New York 10017. The criteria for SAR evaluation are similar to those recommended by the National Council on Radiation Protection and Measurements (NCRP) in “Biological Effects and Exposure Criteria for Radiofrequency Electromagnetic Fields,” NCRP Report No. 86, § 17.4.5, copyright 1986 by NCRP, Bethesda, Maryland 20814. Limits for whole body SAR and peak spatial-average SAR are based on recommendations made in both of these documents. The MPE limits in Table 1 are based generally on criteria published by the NCRP in “Biological Effects and Exposure Criteria for Radiofrequency Electromagnetic Fields,” NCRP Report No. 86, §§ 17.4.1, 17.4.1.1, 17.4.2 and 17.4.3, copyright 1986 by NCRP, Bethesda, Maryland 20814. In the frequency range from 100 MHz to 1500 MHz, these MPE exposure limits for field strength and power density are also generally based on criteria recommended by the ANSI in § 4.1 of “IEEE Standard for Safety Levels with Respect to Human Exposure to Radio Frequency Electromagnetic Fields, 3 kHz to 300 GHz,” ANSI/IEEE Std C95.1-1992, copyright 1992 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc., New York, New York 10017.

(e) Table 1 below sets forth limits for Maximum Permissible Exposure (MPE) to radiofrequency electromagnetic fields.

Table 1 - Limits for Maximum Permissible Exposure (MPE)

|              Frequency range  <br/>(MHz)              |Electric field strength  <br/>(V/m)|Magnetic field strength  <br/>(A/m)|Power density  <br/>(mW/cm<sup>2</sup>)|Averaging time  <br/>(minutes)|
|-------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------|-----------------------------------|---------------------------------------|------------------------------|
|    (A) Limits for Occupational/Controlled Exposure    |                                   |                                   |                                       |                              |
|                        0.3-3.0                        |                614                |               1.63                |                \* 100                 |              6               |
|                        3.0-30                         |              1842/f               |              4.89/f               |         \* 900/f<sup>2</sup>          |              6               |
|                        30-300                         |               61.4                |               0.163               |                  1.0                  |              6               |
|                       300-1,500                       |                                   |                                   |                 f/300                 |              6               |
|                     1,500-100,000                     |                                   |                                   |                   5                   |              6               |
|(B) Limits for General Population/Uncontrolled Exposure|                                   |                                   |                                       |                              |
|                       0.3-1.34                        |                614                |               1.63                |                \* 100                 |              30              |
|                        1.34-30                        |               824/f               |              2.19/f               |         \* 180/f<sup>2</sup>          |              30              |
|                        30-300                         |               27.5                |               0.073               |                  0.2                  |              30              |
|                       300-1,500                       |                                   |                                   |                f/1500                 |              30              |
|                     1,500-100,000                     |                                   |                                   |                  1.0                  |              30              |

f = frequency in MHz \* = Plane-wave equivalent power density

(1) Occupational/controlled exposure limits apply in situations in which persons are exposed as a consequence of their employment provided those persons are fully aware of the potential for exposure and can exercise control over their exposure. Limits for occupational/controlled exposure also apply in situations when a person is transient through a location where occupational/controlled limits apply provided he or she is made aware of the potential for exposure. The phrase *fully aware* in the context of applying these exposure limits means that an exposed person has received written and/or verbal information fully explaining the potential for RF exposure resulting from his or her employment. With the exception of *transient* persons, this phrase also means that an exposed person has received appropriate training regarding work practices relating to controlling or mitigating his or her exposure. Such training is not required for *transient* persons, but they must receive written and/or verbal information and notification (for example, using signs) concerning their exposure potential and appropriate means available to mitigate their exposure. The phrase *exercise control* means that an exposed person is allowed to and knows how to reduce or avoid exposure by administrative or engineering controls and work practices, such as use of personal protective equipment or time averaging of exposure.

(2) General population/uncontrolled exposure limits apply in situations in which the general public may be exposed, or in which persons who are exposed as a consequence of their employment may not be fully aware of the potential for exposure or cannot exercise control over their exposure.

(3) Licensees and applicants are responsible for compliance with both the occupational/controlled exposure limits and the general population/uncontrolled exposure limits as they apply to transmitters under their jurisdiction. Licensees and applicants should be aware that the occupational/controlled exposure limits apply especially in situations where workers may have access to areas in very close proximity to antennas and access to the general public may be restricted.

(4) In lieu of evaluation with the general population/uncontrolled exposure limits, amateur licensees authorized under part 97 of this chapter and members of his or her immediate household may be evaluated with respect to the occupational/controlled exposure limits in this section, provided appropriate training and information has been provided to the amateur licensee and members of his/her household. Other nearby persons who are not members of the amateur licensee's household must be evaluated with respect to the general population/uncontrolled exposure limits.

[78 FR 33650, June 4, 2013]