##### § 54.4974-1 Excise tax on accumulations in individual retirement accounts or annuities. #####

(a) *General rule.* A tax equal to 50 percent of the amount by which the minimum amount required to be distributed from an individual retirement account or annuity described in section 408 during the taxable year of the payee under paragraph (b) of this section exceeds the amount actually distributed during the taxable year is imposed by section 4974 on the payee.

(b) *Minimum amount required to be distributed.* For purposes of this section, the minimum amount required to be distributed is the amount required under § 1.408-2(b)(6)(v) to be distributed in the taxable year described in paragraph (a) of this section.

(c) *Examples.* The application of this section may be illustrated by the following examples.

Example 1.In 1975, the minimum amount required to be distributed under § 1.408-2(b)(6)(v) to A under his individual retirement account is $100. Only $60 is actually distributed to A in 1975. Under section 4974, A would have an excise tax liability of $20 [50% of ($100−$60)].Example 2.Although no distribution is required under § 1.408-2(b)(6)(v) to be made in 1986, H, a married individual born on February 1, 1921, who has established and maintained an individual retirement account decides to begin receiving distributions from the account beginning in 1986. H's wife, W, was born on March 6, 1921. H and W are calendar year taxpayers. H decides to receive his interest in the account over the joint life and last survivor expectancy of himself and his wife. On January 1, 1986, the balance in H's account is $10,000; H and W, based on their nearest birthdates, are 65; and the joint life and last survivor expectancy of H and his wife is 22.0 years (see Table II of § 1.72-9). His annual payments during the following years (none of which were required) were determined by dividing the balance in the account on the first day of each year by the joint life and last survivor expectancy reduced by the number of whole years elapsed since the distributions were to commence.

|    Date    |Life expectancy minus whole years elapsed|Account balance at beginning of each year|Annual payment|
|------------|-----------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------|--------------|
|Jan. 1, 1986|                  22.0                   |                 $10,000                 |     $455     |
|Jan. 1, 1987|                  21.0                   |                 10,118                  |     482      |
|Jan. 1, 1988|                  20.0                   |                 10,214                  |     511      |
|Jan. 1, 1989|                  19.0                   |                 10,285                  |     541      |
|Jan. 1, 1990|                  18.0                   |                 10,329                  |     574      |
|Jan. 1, 1991|                  17.0                   |                 10,340                  |     608      |

For 1986, 1987, 1989, and 1990, the amount required to be distributed under § 1.408-2(b)(6)(v) is zero. Thus, H would have no excise tax liability under section 4974 for these years. In 1991, the year H attains age 701/2, the amount required to be distributed from the account under § 1.408-2(b)(6)(v) is $565, determined by dividing $10,340 (the account balance as of January 1, 1991) by 18.8 years (the joint life and last survivor expectancy of H and W, assuming they are both still living, as of January 1, 1991). If W should die after December 31, 1990, the joint life and last survivor expectancy determined on January 1, 1991 (18.3 years) would not be redetermined. Because the amount distributed from the account in 1991 ($608) exceeds the amount required to be distributed from the account in 1991 ($565), H has no excise tax liability under section 4974 for 1991.Example 3.Assume the same facts as in example (2) except that W dies in 1988. For 1988, 1989, and 1990, the amount required to be distributed under § 1.408-2(b)(6)(v) is zero. Thus, H would have no excise tax liability under section 4974 for these years. In 1991, the amount required to be distributed under § 1.408-2(b)(6)(v) is $855, determined by dividing $10,340 (the account balance as of January 1, 1991) by 12.1 years (the life expectancy of H as of January 1, 1991). Because the amount distributed from the account in 1991 ($608) is less than the amount required to be distributed from the account in 1991 ($855), H has an excise tax liability of $123.50 under section 4974 for 1991 [50% of ($855−$608)].[T.D. 7714, 45 FR 52799, Aug. 8, 1980]