##### ยง 355.38 Withdrawal of service. #####

After opportunity for hearing before a proper official of the Department has been accorded the operator of an inspected plant, the inspection, certification, and identification provided for in this part may be withdrawn from such plant if the operator: (a) Persistently fails to comply with any provision of the regulations in this part or of instructions or directions issued thereunder; (b) makes any willful misrepresentation or engages in any fraudulent or deceptive practice in connection with the making of any application for service; (c) violates ยง 355.37; or (d) interferes with or obstructs any program employee in the performance of his duties under the regulations in this part by intimidation, threats, or other improper means. Pending final determination of the matter, the Administrator may suspend such inspection, certification, and identification without hearing in cases of willfulness or those in which the public health, interest, or safety requires such action. The operator of the inspected plant shall be notified of the Administrator's decision to suspend such inspection, certification or identification service, and the reasons therefor, in writing, in the manner prescribed in ยง 1.147(b) of the rules of practice (7 CFR 1.147(b)), or orally. The Administrator's decision to suspend such inspection, certification or identification service shall be effective upon such oral or written notification, whichever is earlier, to the operator of the plant. If such notification is oral, the Administrator shall confirm such decision and the reasons therefor, in writing, as promptly as circumstances permit, and such written confirmation shall be served upon the operator of the inspected plant, in the manner prescribed in ยง 1.147(b) of the rules of practice (7 CFR 1.147(b)). In other cases, prior to the institution of proceedings for any withdrawal or suspension, the facts or conduct which may warrant such action shall be called to the attention of the operator in writing and he shall be given an opportunity to demonstrate or achieve compliance with the requirements of the regulations in this part and instructions and directions issued thereunder.

[23 FR 10107, Dec. 23, 1958. Redesignated at 30 FR 4195, Mar. 31, 1965, and amended at 43 FR 11148, Mar. 17, 1978]