##### ยง 204.7 Request for correction or amendment of records. #####

(a) Any individual may request the correction or amendment of a record pertaining to her or him. With respect to an error in a copyright registration, the procedure for correction and fee chargeable is governed by section 408(d) of title 17 of the United States Code, and the regulations issued as authorized by that section. With respect to an error in any other record, the request shall be in writing and delivered either by mail addressed to the Supervisory Copyright Information Specialist, Copyright Information Section, Copyright GC/I&R, P.O. Box 70400, Washington, DC 20024, or in person between the hours of 8:30 a.m. and 5 p.m. on any working day except legal holidays, at Room LM-401, The James Madison Memorial Building, 1st and Independence Avenue, SE, Washington, DC. The request shall explain why the individual believes the record to be incomplete, inaccurate, irrelevant, or untimely.

(b) With respect to an error in a copyright registration, the time limit for Office response to requests for correction is governed by section 408(d) of Pub. L. 94-553, and the regulations issued as authorized by that section. With respect to other requests for correction or amendment of records, the Office will respond within ten working days indicating to the requester that the requested correction or amendment has been made or that it has been refused. If the requested correction or amendment is refused, the Office response will indicate the reason for the refusal and the procedure available to the individual to appeal the refusal.

[43 FR 776, Jan. 4, 1978, as amended at 47 FR 36821, Aug. 24, 1982; 60 FR 34169, June 30, 1995; 64 FR 36575, July 7, 1999; 65 FR 39820, June 28, 2000; 73 FR 37839, July 2, 2008]