##### ยง 206.121 Secretary authorized to make payments. #####

(a) *Investigation.* The Secretary will investigate all complaints by a mortgagor concerning late payments. If the Secretary determines that the mortgagee is unable or unwilling to make all payments required under the mortgage, including late charges, the Secretary shall pay such payments and late charges to the mortgagor.

(b) *Reimbursement or assignment.* The Secretary may demand that within 30 days from the demand, the mortgagee reimburse the Secretary, with interest from the date of payment by the Secretary, or assign the insured mortgage to the Secretary. Interest shall be paid at a rate set in conformity with the Treasury Financial Manual. If the mortgagee complies with the reimbursement demand, then the contract of insurance shall not be affected. If the mortgagee complies by assigning the mortgage for record within 30 days of the demand, then the Secretary shall pay an insurance claim as provided in ยง 206.129(e)(3) and assume all responsibilities of the mortgagee under the first mortgage. If the mortgagee fails to comply with the demand within 30 days, the contract of insurance will terminate as provided in ยง 206.133(c).

(c) *Second mortgage.* If the contract of insurance is terminated as provided in ยง 206.133(c), all payments to the mortgagor by the Secretary will be secured by the second mortgage, if any. Payments will be due and payable in the same manner as under the insured first mortgage. The liability of the mortgagor under the first mortgage shall be limited to payments actually made by the mortgagee to or on behalf of the mortgagor (including MIP), and shall exclude accrued interest, whether or not it has been included in the mortgage balance, and shared appreciation, if any. Interest will stop accruing on the first mortgage when the Secretary begins to make payments under the second mortgage. The first mortgage will not be due and payable until the second mortgage is due and payable.

[54 FR 24833, June 9, 1989; 54 FR 32060, Aug. 4, 1989, as amended at 60 FR 42761, Aug. 16, 1995; 61 FR 49034, Sept. 17, 1996; 61 FR 67931, Dec. 26, 1996]