##### ยง 1.831-4 Election of multiple line companies to be taxed on total income. #####

(a) *In general.* Section 831(c) provides that any mutual insurance company engaged in writing marine, fire, and casualty insurance which, for any 5-year period beginning after December 31, 1941, and ending before January 1, 1962, was subject to the tax imposed by section 831 (or the tax imposed by corresponding provisions of prior law) may elect, in the manner provided by paragraph (b) of this section, to be subject to the tax imposed by section 831, whether or not marine insurance is its predominant source of premium income. A company making an election under section 831(c) and this section will be subject to the tax imposed by section 831 for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1961, rather than subject to the tax imposed by section 821.

(b) *Time and manner of making election.* The election provided by section 831(c) and paragraph (a) of this section shall be made in a statement attached to the taxpayer's return for the taxable year 1962. The statement shall indicate that the taxpayer has made the election provided by section 831(c) and this section; shall include the name and address of the taxpayer, and shall be signed by the taxpayer or his duly authorized representative. In addition, the statement shall list the 5 consecutive taxable years prior to 1962 for which the taxpayer was subject to tax under section 831 (or the corresponding provisions of prior law); the types of insurance written by the company; and the percentage of marine insurance to total insurance written. The return and statement must be filed not later than the date prescribed by law (including extensions thereof) for filing the return for the taxable year 1962. However, if the last date prescribed by law (including extensions thereof) for filing the income tax return for the taxable year 1962 falls before October 17, 1963, the election provided by section 831(c) and this section may be made for such year by filing the statement and an amended return for such taxable year (and all subsequent taxable years for which returns have been filed) before January 16, 1964.

(c) *Scope of election.* An election made under section 831(c) and paragraph (b) of this section shall be binding for all taxable years beginning after December 31, 1961, unless consent to revoke the election is obtained from the Commissioner. However, if a taxpayer made the election provided by section 831(c) and this section for taxable years beginning prior to October 17, 1963, the taxpayer may revoke such election without obtaining consent from the Commissioner by filing, before January 16, 1964, a statement that the taxpayer desires to revoke such election. Such statement shall be signed by the taxpayer or its duly authorized representative. An amended return reflecting such revocation must accompany the statement for all taxable years for which returns have been filed with respect to such election.

(d) *Limitation on certain net operating loss carryovers and carrybacks.* In the case of a taxpayer making the election allowed under section 831(c) and this section, a net operating loss shall not be carried:

(1) To or from any taxable year for which the insurance company is not subject to the tax imposed by section 831(a) (or predecessor sections); or

(2) To any taxable year if, between the loss year and such taxable year, there is an intervening taxable year for which the insurance company was not subject to the tax imposed by section 831(a) (or predecessor sections).

[T.D. 6681, 28 FR 11128, Oct. 17, 1963]