##### § 644.540 Advertising. #####

(a) *Definition and purposes.* GSA regulations require that disposal agencies shall widely publicize all surplus real property which becomes available for sale. Sales will be made to the highest responsible bidder after advertising. Advertising consists of the preparation of Invitation for Bids, the posting of copies thereof in public places, their distribution to interested persons or prospective bidders, and publication of notice of sale in newspapers where such publication is deemed advisable or is required by this subpart F. The purpose of advertising and obtaining competition in selling Government property is:

(1) To give all qualified persons equal opportunity to bid for the property.

(2) To secure for the Government the benefits which flow from competition.

(3) To prevent criticism that favortism has been shown by officers or employees of the Government in making sales of public property.

(b) *Notice to Department of Commerce.* A condensed statement of proposed sales of surplus real property by advertising for competitive bids, except where the estimated fair market value of all the property included in the advertisement is less than $5,000, shall be prepared for publication in the U.S. Department of Commerce publications, “Commerce Business Daily.” Guideline is contained in the Defense Acquisition Regulation (DAR) 1-1005.1, (formerly the Armed Services Procurement Regulation). Forward statement to: U.S. Department of Commerce, Commerce Business Daily, P.O. Box 5999, Chicago, Illinois 60680.

(c) *Procedure.* Whether newspaper advertising in addition to distribution and posting of Invitation for Bids is desirable will depend upon the value of the property and in some instances the anticipated interest in the property. The ever-changing market requires different methods or efforts to obtain the best price for the Government. The time allowed for submission of bids will depend upon the time available, usually 30 days. If available, a longer period may be desirable based on value and other factors. A shorter period may be necessary and, in an emergency, a period of less than 10 days may be allowed. However, the contracting officer should make a record of written findings to support such a decision. If the emergency is based on requirements of the using command that appear questionable, a report with recommendations should be forwarded to DAEN-REM by the most expeditious means.

(d) *Bidders mailing lists.* Instructions contained in procurement regulations are applicable generally for establishing, maintaining, and controlling bidders mailing lists (DAR 2-205). Generally, all proposed sales should be preceded by an advance notice, to eliminate disinterested bidders and as a measure of economy in printing and distributing voluminous Invitation for Bids. Notice to bidders will provide that their failure to respond to two successive sales offerings will result in the removal of their names from the bidders list. When time does not permit an advance notice, one copy of the Invitation may be sent to the potential bidder, which contains the following notice: *“Attention Bidders.* If interested in bidding on any or all items, three (3) additional copies will be furnished on request.” The advance notice will describe the property offered and ordinarily provide that Invitation for Bids will be mailed on request or may be picked up at the installation or project at the time the property is inspected.

(e) *Inspection of the property.* Upon request, interested persons should be permitted to make appropriate inspection of the property, including inventory records, plans, specifications, and engineering reports, subject to any restrictions necessary in the interest of national security and to such reasonable rules as may be prescribed by the using command or the DE.