cfr/title-07-Agriculture/subtitle-B-Regulations-Department-Agriculture/chapter-XVII-Rural-Utilities-Service-Department-Agriculture/part-1755-Telecommunications-Policies-Specifications-Acceptable-Materials-Standard-Contract-Forms/section-1755.97.md, before:

##### § 1755.97 Telephone standards and specifications. #####

(a) To comply with the provisions of this part, you must follow the requirements set out in the following RUS telecommunications bulletins. These bulletins are approved for incorporation by reference by the Director of the Office of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. These bulletins contain construction standards and specifications for materials and equipment and may be obtained from the Rural Utilities Service, Program Development and Regulatory Analysis, 1400 Independence Ave., SW., Stop 1522, Room 4028 South Building, Washington, DC 20250-1522, phone (202) 720-8674. The bulletins are available for inspection at RUS, at the address above, and at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal\_register/code\_of\_federal\_regulations/ibr\_locations.html.* These materials are incorporated as they exist on the date of the approval and notice of any change in these materials will be published in the Federal Register. The terms “RUS form”, “RUS standard form”, “RUS specification”, and “RUS bulletin” have the same meaning as the terms “REA form”, “REA standards form”, “REA specification”, and “REA bulletin”, respectively, unless otherwise indicated. For information on other standards incorporated by reference into this part see *§ 1755.901.*

(b) The following RUS bulletins are available from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office (GPO) for Washington, DC 20402, *Phone:* 1-866-512-1800 (toll-free) 202-512-1800 (DC Area) or go to the GPO Web site at: *http://www.gpoaccess.gov/about/index.html.*

(1) Bulletin 345-39, RUS specification for telephone station protectors, August 19, 1985.

(2) Bulletin 345-50 PE-60, RUS specification for trunk carrier systems, September 1979.

(3) Bulletin 345-54 PE-52, RUS specification for telephone cable splicing connectors, December 1971.

(4) Bulletin 345-55 PE-61, RUS specification for central office loop extenders and loop extender voice frequency repeater combinations, December 1973.

(5) Bulletin 345-65, PE-65, Specification for shield bonding connectors, March 22, 1985.

(6) Bulletin 345-66 PE-64, RUS specification for subscriber carrier systems, September 1979.

(7) Bulletin 345-69 PE-29, RUS specification for two-wire voice frequency repeater equipment, January 1978.

(8) Bulletin 345-72 PE-74, RUS specification for filled splice closures, October 1985.

(9) Bulletin 345-78 PE-78, RUS specification for carbon arrester assemblies for use in protectors, February 1980.

(10) Bulletin 345-180 Form 397a, RUS specifications for voice frequency repeaters and voice frequency repeatered trunks, January 1963.

(11) Bulletin 345-183 Form 397d, RUS design specifications for point-to-point microwave radio systems June 1970.

(12) Bulletin 345-184 Form 397e, RUS design specifications for mobile and fixed dial radio telephone equipment May 1971.

(13) Bulletin 1728F-700, RUS Specification for Wood Poles, Stubs and Anchor Logs, (3-2011).

(14) Bulletin 1753F-150 Form 515a, Specifications and Drawings for Construction of Direct Buried Plant, September 30, 2010.

(15) Bulletin 1753F-151 Form 515b, Specifications and Drawings for Construction of Underground Plan, September 12, 2001.

(16) Bulletin 1753F-152 Form 515c, Specifications and Drawings for Construction of Aerial Plant, September 17, 2001.

(17) Bulletin 1753F-153 Form 515d, Specifications and Drawings for Service Installation at Customer Access Locations, September 17, 2001.

[76 FR 36975, June 24, 2011]

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2019-06-18 issue
Title: 7: Agriculture - Sections changed: 39
Title: 9: Animals and Animal Products - Sections changed: 1
Title: 16: Commercial Practices - Sections changed: 1
Title: 21: Food and Drugs - Sections changed: 1
Title: 38: Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief - Sections changed: 4
Title: 40: Protection of Environment - Sections changed: 17

cfr/title-07-Agriculture/subtitle-B-Regulations-Department-Agriculture/chapter-XVII-Rural-Utilities-Service-Department-Agriculture/part-1755-Telecommunications-Policies-Specifications-Acceptable-Materials-Standard-Contract-Forms/section-1755.97.md, after:

##### § 1755.97 Telephone standards and specifications. #####

(a)(1) Certain material is incorporated by reference into this part with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. All approved material is available for inspection at the Rural Utilities Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Room 5170-S, Washington, DC 20250-1522, call (202) 720-8674 and is available as listed in this section. It is also available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of these materials at NARA, call (202) 741-6030 or go to: *www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.*

(2) To comply with the provisions of this part, you must follow the requirements set out in the RUS telecommunications bulletins incorporated by reference. These materials are incorporated as they exist on the date of the approval and notification of any change in these materials will be published in the Federal Register. The terms “RUS form”, “RUS standard form”, “RUS specification”, and “RUS bulletin” have the same meaning as the terms “REA form”, “REA standards form”, “REA specification”, and “REA bulletin”, respectively, unless otherwise indicated. For information on other standards incorporated by reference into this part see § 1755.901.

(b) Rural Utilities Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Room 5170-S, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250, *https://www.rd.usda.gov/publications/regulations-guidelines/bulletins.*

(1) Bulletin 345-39, RUS specification for telephone station protectors, August 19, 1985.

(2) Bulletin 345-50 PE-60, RUS specification for trunk carrier systems, September 1979.

(3) Bulletin 345-54 PE-52, RUS specification for telephone cable splicing connectors, December 1971.

(4) Bulletin 345-55 PE-61, RUS specification for central office loop extenders and loop extender voice frequency repeater combinations, December 1973.

(5) Bulletin 345-65, PE-65, Specification for shield bonding connectors, March 22, 1985.

(6) Bulletin 345-66 PE-64, RUS specification for subscriber carrier systems, September 1979.

(7) Bulletin 345-69 PE-29, RUS specification for two-wire voice frequency repeater equipment, January 1978.

(8) Bulletin 345-72 PE-74, RUS specification for filled splice closures, October 1985.

(9) Bulletin 345-78 PE-78, RUS specification for carbon arrester assemblies for use in protectors, February 1980.

(10) Bulletin 345-180 Form 397a, RUS specifications for voice frequency repeaters and voice frequency repeatered trunks, January 1963.

(11) Bulletin 345-183 Form 397d, RUS design specifications for point-to-point microwave radio systems June 1970.

(12) Bulletin 345-184 Form 397e, RUS design specifications for mobile and fixed dial radio telephone equipment May 1971.

(13) Bulletin 1728F-700, RUS Specification for Wood Poles, Stubs and Anchor Logs, April 15, 2019.

(14) Bulletin 1753F-150 Form 515a, Specifications and Drawings for Construction of Direct Buried Plant, September 30, 2010.

(15) Bulletin 1753F-151 Form 515b, Specifications and Drawings for Construction of Underground Plan, September 12, 2001.

(16) Bulletin 1753F-152 Form 515c, Specifications and Drawings for Construction of Aerial Plant, September 17, 2001.

(17) Bulletin 1753F-153 Form 515d, Specifications and Drawings for Service Installation at Customer Access Locations, September 17, 2001.

[84 FR 28201, June 18, 2019]
