cfr/title-29-Labor/subtitle-B-Regulations-Relating-Labor/chapter-V-Wage-Hour-Division-Department-Labor/subchapter-B-Statements-General-Policy-Interpretation-Not-Directly-Related-Regulations/part-778-Overtime-Compensation/subpart-C-Payments-That-May-Be-Excluded-From-Regular-Rate/subjectgroup-ECFR9147a8e4381da5d-Extra-Compensation-Paid-Overtime/section-778.207.md, before:

##### § 778.207 Other types of contract premium pay distinguished. #####

Link to an amendment published at 84 FR 68772, Dec. 16, 2019.

(a) *Overtime premiums are those defined by the statute.* The various types of contract premium rates which provide extra compensation qualifying as overtime premiums to be excluded from the regular rate (under section 7(e) (5), (6), and (7) and credited toward statutory overtime pay requirements (under section 7(h)) have been described in §§ 778.201 through 778.206. The plain wording of the statute makes it clear that extra compensation provided by premium rates other than those described cannot be treated as overtime premiums. Wherever such other premiums are paid, they must be included in the employee's regular rate before statutory overtime compensation is computed; no part of such premiums may be credited toward statutory overtime pay.

(b) *Nonovertime premiums.* The Act requires the inclusion in the regular rate of such extra premiums as nightshift differentials (whether they take the form of a percent of the base rate or an addition of so many cents per hour) and premiums paid for hazardous, arduous or dirty work. It also requires inclusion of any extra compensation which is paid as an incentive for the rapid performance of work, and since any extra compensation in order to qualify as an overtime premium must be provided by a premium rate per hour, except in the special case of pieceworkers as discussed in § 778.418, lump sum premiums which are paid without regard to the number of hours worked are not overtime premiums and must be included in the regular rate. For example, where an employer pays 8 hours' pay for a particular job whether it is performed in 8 hours or in less time, the extra premium of 2 hours' pay received by an employee who completes the job in 6 hours must be included in his regular rate. Similarly, where an employer pays for 8 hours at premium rates for a job performed during the overtime hours whether it is completed in 8 hours or less, no part of the premium paid qualifies as overtime premium under sections 7(e) (5), (6), or (7). (For a further discussion of this and related problems, see §§ 778.308 to 778.314.)

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2020-01-15 issue
Title: 5: Administrative Personnel - Sections changed: 4
Title: 12: Banks and Banking - Sections changed: 12
Title: 15: Commerce and Foreign Trade - Sections changed: 2
Title: 34: Education - Sections changed: 4
Title: 20: Employees' Benefits - Sections changed: 8
Title: 10: Energy - Sections changed: 2
Title: 48: Federal Acquisition Regulations System - Sections changed: 10
Title: 21: Food and Drugs - Sections changed: 8
Title: 29: Labor - Sections changed: 34
Title: 30: Mineral Resources - Sections changed: 3
Title: 33: Navigation and Navigable Waters - Sections changed: 1
Title: 40: Protection of Environment - Sections changed: 2
Title: 45: Public Welfare - Sections changed: 3
Title: 46: Shipping - Sections changed: 1
Title: 47: Telecommunication - Sections changed: 1
Title: 49: Transportation - Sections changed: 1
Title: 50: Wildlife and Fisheries - Sections changed: 5

cfr/title-29-Labor/subtitle-B-Regulations-Relating-Labor/chapter-V-Wage-Hour-Division-Department-Labor/subchapter-B-Statements-General-Policy-Interpretation-Not-Directly-Related-Regulations/part-778-Overtime-Compensation/subpart-C-Payments-That-May-Be-Excluded-From-Regular-Rate/subjectgroup-ECFR9147a8e4381da5d-Extra-Compensation-Paid-Overtime/section-778.207.md, after:

##### § 778.207 Other types of contract premium pay distinguished. #####

(a) *Overtime premiums are those defined by the statute.* The various types of premium payments which provide extra compensation qualifying as overtime premiums to be excluded from the regular rate (under sections 7(e)(5), (6), and (7) and credited toward statutory overtime pay requirements (under section 7(h)) have been described in §§ 778.201 through 778.206. The plain wording of the statute makes it clear that extra compensation provided by premium rates other than those described in the statute cannot be treated as overtime premiums. When such other premiums are paid, they must be included in the employee's regular rate before statutory overtime compensation is computed; no part of such premiums may be credited toward statutory overtime pay.

(b) *Nonovertime premiums.* The Act requires the inclusion in the regular rate of such extra premiums as nightshift differentials (whether they take the form of a percent of the base rate or an addition of so many cents per hour) and premiums paid for hazardous, arduous or dirty work. It also requires inclusion of any extra compensation which is paid as an incentive for the rapid performance of work, and since any extra compensation in order to qualify as an overtime premium must be provided by a premium rate per hour, except in the special case of pieceworkers as discussed in § 778.418, lump sum premiums which are paid without regard to the number of hours worked are not overtime premiums and must be included in the regular rate. For example, where an employer pays 8 hours' pay for a particular job whether it is performed in 8 hours or in less time, the extra premium of 2 hours' pay received by an employee who completes the job in 6 hours must be included in his regular rate. Similarly, where an employer pays for 8 hours at premium rates for a job performed during the overtime hours whether it is completed in 8 hours or less, no part of the premium paid qualifies as overtime premium under sections 7(e) (5), (6), or (7). (For a further discussion of this and related problems, see §§ 778.308 to 778.314.)

[33 FR 986, Jan. 26, 1968, as amended at 84 FR 68772, Dec. 16, 2019]
