##### ยง 175.25 Notification at air passenger facilities of hazardous materials restrictions. #####

(a) *Notices of requirements.* Each person who engages in for-hire air transportation of passengers must display notices of the requirements applicable to the carriage of hazardous materials aboard aircraft, and the penalties for failure to comply with those requirements in accordance with this section. Each notice must be legible, and be prominently displayed so it can be seen by passengers in locations where the aircraft operator issues tickets, checks baggage, and maintains aircraft boarding areas. At a minimum, each notice must communicate the following information:

(1) Federal law forbids the carriage of hazardous materials aboard aircraft in your luggage or on your person. A violation can result in five years' imprisonment and penalties of $250,000 or more (49 U.S.C. 5124). Hazardous materials include explosives, compressed gases, flammable liquids and solids, oxidizers, poisons, corrosives and radioactive materials. Examples: Paints, lighter fluid, fireworks, tear gases, oxygen bottles, and radio-pharmaceuticals.

(2) There are special exceptions for small quantities (up to 70 ounces total) of medicinal and toilet articles carried in your luggage and certain smoking materials carried on your person. For further information contact your airline representative.

(b) *Ticket purchase.* An aircraft operator must ensure that information on the types of hazardous materials which a passenger is forbidden to transport aboard an aircraft is presented at the point of ticket purchase or, if this is not practical, made available in another manner to passengers prior to the check-in process. Information provided via the Internet may be in text or pictorial form but must be such that ticket purchase cannot be completed until the passenger, or a person acting on their behalf, has been presented with this information and indicated that they have understood the restrictions on hazardous materials in baggage.

(c) *Check-in.* When the flight check-in process is conducted remotely (*e.g.,* via the Internet) or when completed at the airport, without assistance from another person (*e.g.,* automated check-in kiosk), the aircraft operator must ensure that information on the types of hazardous materials a passenger is forbidden to transport aboard an aircraft is presented to passengers. Information may be in text or in pictorial form but must be such that the check-in process cannot be completed until the passenger, or a person acting on their behalf, has been presented with this information and indicated that they have understood the restrictions on hazardous materials in baggage.

(d) *Signage.* When the check in process is not conducted remotely (e.g., at the airport with the assistance of an airline representative), passenger notification of permitted and forbidden hazardous materials may be completed through signage (electronic or otherwise), provided it is legible and prominently displayed.

[78 FR 65486, Oct. 31, 2013, as amended at 80 FR 1164, Jan. 8, 2015]