##### § 381.152 Preparation in an official establishment of articles not for human food. #####

(a) *Requirements applicable when prepared in an edible products department.* When an article (including, but not being limited to, animal food) that is not for use as human food is prepared in any room or compartment, in an official establishment where poultry products are prepared or handled (such room or compartment being herein referred to as an “edible products department”), sufficient space and equipment shall be provided to assure that the preparation of the article in no way interferes with the preparation or other handling of the poultry products. Where necessary, separate equipment shall be provided for the preparation of the article. To assure the maintenance of the requisite sanitary conditions in the edible products department, the operations incident to the preparation of the article shall be subject to the same sanitary requirements as apply to the handling of poultry products in the edible products department. Preparation of the article shall be limited to those hours during which the official establishment operates under the supervision of an inspector. The ingredients used in the preparation of the article shall, unless otherwise approved by the Administrator in specific cases, be such as may be used in the preparation of a poultry product. The article may be stored in, and distributed from, the edible products department if the article is properly identified.

(b) *Requirements applicable when prepared in an inedible products department.* When an article (including, but not being limited to, animal food) that is not for use as human food, is prepared in any part of an official establishment other than an edible products department (such part of the establishment being herein referred to as the “inedible products department”), the area in which such article is prepared shall be distinctly separated from all edible products departments. Poultry products and inedible products may be brought from any edible products department into any inedible products department, but no poultry product or inedible product may be brought from an inedible products department into an edible products department except that any such articles as are in sealed containers or are handled under conditions prescribed or approved by the Administrator in specific cases may be brought into an edible products department. Diseased carcasses or diseased parts of any carcass shall not be used in the preparation of any animal food unless they have been treated in the manner prescribed in § 381.95(a). Trucks or containers used for the transportation of poultry products or inedible products into an inedible products department shall be cleaned before being returned to or brought into an edible products department. Sufficient space shall be allotted and adequate equipment and facilities provided so that the preparation of the article does not interfere with the preparation of poultry products or the maintenance of the requisite sanitary conditions in the official establishment. The preparation of any such article shall be subject to supervision by an inspector.

(c) *Containers to be labeled.* The immediate container of any such article that is prepared in an official establishment shall be conspicuously labeled so as to distinguish it from human food. Such articles are also subject to the requirements under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.