##### § 905.16 Regulation Area II. #####

*Regulation Area II* is defined as the “Indian River District”, and shall include that part of the State of Florida particularly described as follows:

Beginning at a point on the shore of the Atlantic Ocean where the line between Flagler and Volusia Counties intersects said shore, thence follow the line between said two counties to the Southwest corner of Section 23, Township 14 South, Range 31 East; thence continue South to the Southwest corner of Section 35, Township 14 South, Range 31 East; thence East to the Northwest corner of Township 15 South, Range 32 East; thence South to the Southwest corner of Township 17 South, Range 32 East; thence East to the Northwest corner of Township 18 South, Range 33 East; thence South to the St. Johns River; thence along the main channel of the St. Johns River and through Lake Harney, Lake Poinsett, Lake Winder, Lake Washington, Sawgrass Lake, and Lake Helen Blazes to the range line between Ranges 35 East and 36 East; thence South to the South line of Brevard County; thence East to the line between Ranges 36 East and 37 East; thence South to the Southwest corner of St. Lucie County; thence East to the line between Ranges 39 East and 40 East; thence South to the South line of Martin County; thence East to the line between Ranges 40 East and 41 East; thence South to the West Palm Beach Canal (also known as the Okeechobee Canal); thence follow said canal eastward to the mouth thereof; thence East to the shore of the Atlantic Ocean; thence Northerly along the shore of the Atlantic Ocean to the point of beginning.

[22 FR 10734, Dec. 27, 1957. Redesignated at 26 FR 12751, Dec. 30, 1961, and further redesignated at 42 FR 59368, Nov. 17, 1977, as amended at 42 FR 59370, Nov. 17, 1977; 54 FR 37292, Sept. 8, 1989]