##### § 48.4041-3 Application of tax on sales of special motor fuel for use in motor vehicles and motorboats. #####

(a) *In general.* The tax imposed by paragraph (2)(A) of section 4041 (a), (or before April 1, 1983, paragraph (1) of section 4041 (b)), applies to the taxable sale of special motor fuel by any person to an owner, lessee, or other operator of a motor vehicle or motorboat, for use as a fuel in the motor vehicle or motorboat. The tax does not apply to special motor fuel sold for use on or after April 1, 1983, and before October 1, 1988, in an off-highway business use.

(b) *Liability for tax.* The tax on the taxable sale of special motor fuel is payable by the person who sells the special motor fuel to the owner, lessee, or other operator of a motor vehicle or motorboat.

(c) *Rate of tax*—(1) *In general.* Tax is imposed on the sale of special motor fuel at the rate applicable on the date on which the special motor fuel is sold. See § 48.4041-1(b)(2) for rates. The test of taxability at the rates specified in § 48.4041-1(b)(2) (i)(A) and (ii)(A) is whether the fuel is to be used in a motor vehicle or motorboat. For purposes of paragraphs (c) (2) and (3) of this section, the term “qualified business use” has the same meaning as that given to the term “off-highway business use” by section 6421(d)(2).

(2) *Special motor fuel sold for use as a fuel in a motor vehicle.* Tax at the rates specified in paragraphs (b)(2) (i)(A) and (ii)(A) of § 48.4041-1 applies in the case of the sale of special motor fuel for use as a fuel in a motor vehicle. Tax at the rates specified in that section applies regardless of whether the motor vehicle is a highway vehicle. However, a reduced rate of tax from that imposed by paragraphs (b)(2)(i)(A) of § 48.4041-1 is allowed by paragraph (b)(2)(i)(C) of § 48.4041-1 if special motor fuel is sold for use in a qualified business use. An exemption from the tax imposed by paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(A) of § 48.4041-1 is allowed by paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(C) of § 48.4041-1 if the special motor fuel is sold for use in an off-highway business use.

(3) *Special motor fuel sold for use as fuel in a motorboat.* Tax at the rates specified in paragraphs (b)(2)(i)(A) and (ii)(A) of § 48.4041-1 applies in the case of the sale of special motor fuel for use as fuel in a motorboat. The qualified business use reduced rate of tax set forth in paragraph (b)(2)(i)(C) of § 48.4041-1 and the off-highway business use exemption set forth in paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(C) of § 48.4041-1 are not applicable to motorboats unless the motorboat is a vessel employed in the fisheries or whaling business. See section 6421(d)(2)(B).

(d) *Example.* Application of the tax to the sale of special motor fuels may be illustrated by the following example.

Example.The N Company is engaged in the manufacture of ceramic products. It has a vehicle which is used to haul clay from a clay pit to its factory. This vehicle has not been registered for highway use and under the applicable State law is not required to be registered for highway use since none of the hauling of clay is done on public highways. The N Company also uses a ditch digging machine in the vicinity of the clay pit for the construction of drains. A fork lift truck is used to move cartons of merchandise from place to place inside the company's warehouse and to assist in the loading of merchandise onto the company's highway trucks for delivery to purchasers. The highway trucks are registered by the State for use on highways. Special motor fuel is used for the operation of all of these items of equipment. Before April 1, 1983, the special motor fuel sold for use as a fuel in the registered highway trucks is subject to tax at the rate specified in § 48.4041-1(b)(2)(i)(A). On or after January 1, 1979, and before April 1, 1983, the special motor fuel sold for use as a fuel in the unregistered truck used to haul clay from the pit to the factory and in the fork lift truck, assuming both of these are used in qualified business uses, is subject to tax at the rate specified in § 48.4041-1(b)(2)(i)(C). If the unregistered truck and forklift are not used in qualified business uses, then the special motor fuel sold for use in these vehicles is taxable at the rate specified in § 48.4041-1(b)(2)(i)(A) since both are motor vehicles. No tax is payable with respect to the special motor fuel sold for use in the ditch digging machine since that machine is not a motor vehicle. On and after April 1, 1983, and before October 1, 1988, special motor fuel sold for use in the registered trucks is taxable at the rate specified in § 48.4041-1(b)(2)(ii)(A) because the trucks are motor vehicles. On and after April 1, 1983, and before October 1, 1988, special motor fuel sold for use in the unregistered truck and the fork lift, assuming that both vehicles are used in off-highway business uses, is exempt from tax as specified in § 48.4041-1(b)(2)(ii)(C). If the unregistered truck and fork lift are not used in off-highway business uses, then the special motor fuel sold for use in these vehicles is taxable at the rate specified in § 48.4041-1(b)(2)(ii)(A) since both are motor vehicles. No tax is payable with respect to the special motor fuel sold for use in the ditch digging machine since that machine is not a motor vehicle.

(e) *Cross reference.* (1) For the tax applicable in certain cases based on the use of special motor fuel as a fuel in a motor vehicle or motorboat, see § 48.4041-6.

(2) For the definition of the terms “highway”, “motor vehicle”, “special motor fuel”, and “registered”, see paragraphs (a), (c), (f), and (i) of § 48.4041-8. For the definition of the term “off-highway business use”, see section 6421(d)(2).

(3) For the exemption from tax with respect to special motor fuel sold for use on a farm for farming purposes or as supplies for vessels, see §§ 48.4041-9 and 48.4041-10, respectively.

(4) For credit or refund of tax paid on special motor fuel resold or used otherwise than for the purpose for which purchased, see section 6427(a).

[T.D. 8066, 51 FR 14, Jan. 2, 1986]