##### § 118.3 Incorporation by reference. #####

(a) In this part, portions or the entire text of certain standards and specifications are incorporated by reference as the governing requirements for materials, equipment, tests, or procedures to be followed. These standards and specification requirements specifically referred to in this part are the governing requirements for the subject matters covered, unless specifically limited, modified, or replaced by the regulations.

(b) These materials are incorporated by reference into this part under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register. The Office of the Federal Register publishes a table, “Material Approved for Incorporation by Reference,” which appears in the Finding Aids section of this volume. In that table are found citations to the particular sections of this part where the material is incorporated. To enforce any edition other than the one listed in paragraph (c) of this section, notice of the change must be published in the Federal Register and the material made available. All approved material is available for inspection at Coast Guard Headquarters. Contact Commandant (CG-BRG), Attn: Office of Bridge Programs, U.S. Coast Guard Stop 7418, 2703 Martin Luther King Jr. Avenue SE., Washington, DC 20593-7418. You may also contact the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal\_register/code\_of\_federal\_regulations/ibr\_locations.html.* Copies may be obtained from the sources indicated in paragraph (c) of this section.

(c) The materials approved for incorporation by reference in this part are:

Federal Highway Administration (FHWA), 1200 New Jersey Avenue SE., Washington, DC 20590Standard Alphabets for Highways Signs, 1966. (Reprinted April 1984).[CGD 84-022, 51 FR 16313, May 2, 1986]Editorial Note:For Federal Register citations affecting § 118.3, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at *www.govinfo.gov.*