##### ยง 200.329 Monitoring and reporting program performance. #####

(a) *Monitoring by the non-Federal entity.* The non-Federal entity is responsible for oversight of the operations of the Federal award supported activities. The non-Federal entity must monitor its activities under Federal awards to assure compliance with applicable Federal requirements and performance expectations are being achieved. Monitoring by the non-Federal entity must cover each program, function or activity. See also ยง 200.332.

(b) *Reporting program performance.* The Federal awarding agency must use OMB-approved common information collections, as applicable, when providing financial and performance reporting information. As appropriate and in accordance with above mentioned information collections, the Federal awarding agency must require the recipient to relate financial data and accomplishments to performance goals and objectives of the Federal award. Also, in accordance with above mentioned common information collections, and when required by the terms and conditions of the Federal award, recipients must provide cost information to demonstrate cost effective practices (*e.g.,* through unit cost data). In some instances (*e.g.,* discretionary research awards), this will be limited to the requirement to submit technical performance reports (to be evaluated in accordance with Federal awarding agency policy). Reporting requirements must be clearly articulated such that, where appropriate, performance during the execution of the Federal award has a standard against which non-Federal entity performance can be measured.

(c) *Non-construction performance reports.* The Federal awarding agency must use standard, governmentwide OMB-approved data elements for collection of performance information including performance progress reports, Research Performance Progress Reports.

(1) The non-Federal entity must submit performance reports at the interval required by the Federal awarding agency or pass-through entity to best inform improvements in program outcomes and productivity. Intervals must be no less frequent than annually nor more frequent than quarterly except in unusual circumstances, for example where more frequent reporting is necessary for the effective monitoring of the Federal award or could significantly affect program outcomes. Reports submitted annually by the non-Federal entity and/or pass-through entity must be due no later than 90 calendar days after the reporting period. Reports submitted quarterly or semiannually must be due no later than 30 calendar days after the reporting period. Alternatively, the Federal awarding agency or pass-through entity may require annual reports before the anniversary dates of multiple year Federal awards. The final performance report submitted by the non-Federal entity and/or pass-through entity must be due no later than 120 calendar days after the period of performance end date. A subrecipient must submit to the pass-through entity, no later than 90 calendar days after the period of performance end date, all final performance reports as required by the terms and conditions of the Federal award. See also ยง 200.344. If a justified request is submitted by a non-Federal entity, the Federal agency may extend the due date for any performance report.

(2) As appropriate in accordance with above mentioned performance reporting, these reports will contain, for each Federal award, brief information on the following unless other data elements are approved by OMB in the agency information collection request:

(i) A comparison of actual accomplishments to the objectives of the Federal award established for the period. Where the accomplishments of the Federal award can be quantified, a computation of the cost (for example, related to units of accomplishment) may be required if that information will be useful. Where performance trend data and analysis would be informative to the Federal awarding agency program, the Federal awarding agency should include this as a performance reporting requirement.

(ii) The reasons why established goals were not met, if appropriate.

(iii) Additional pertinent information including, when appropriate, analysis and explanation of cost overruns or high unit costs.

(d) *Construction performance reports.* For the most part, onsite technical inspections and certified percentage of completion data are relied on heavily by Federal awarding agencies and pass-through entities to monitor progress under Federal awards and subawards for construction. The Federal awarding agency may require additional performance reports only when considered necessary.

(e) *Significant developments.* Events may occur between the scheduled performance reporting dates that have significant impact upon the supported activity. In such cases, the non-Federal entity must inform the Federal awarding agency or pass-through entity as soon as the following types of conditions become known:

(1) Problems, delays, or adverse conditions which will materially impair the ability to meet the objective of the Federal award. This disclosure must include a statement of the action taken, or contemplated, and any assistance needed to resolve the situation.

(2) Favorable developments which enable meeting time schedules and objectives sooner or at less cost than anticipated or producing more or different beneficial results than originally planned.

(f) *Site visits.* The Federal awarding agency may make site visits as warranted by program needs.

(g) *Performance report requirement waiver.* The Federal awarding agency may waive any performance report required by this part if not needed.