cfr/title-47-Telecommunication/chapter-I-Federal-Communications-Commission/subchapter-D-Safety-Special-Radio-Services/part-80-Stations-Maritime-Services/subpart-T-Radiotelephone-Installation-Required-Vessels-Great-Lakes/section-80.951.md, before:

##### § 80.951 Applicability. #####

The Agreement Between the United States of America and Canada for Promotion of Safety on the Great Lakes by Means of Radio, 1973, applies to vessels of all countries when navigated on the Great Lakes. The Great Lakes Radio Agreement defines the Great Lakes as “all waters of Lakes Ontario, Erie, Huron (including Georgian Bay), Michigan, Superior, their connecting and tributary waters and the River St. Lawrence as far east as the lower exit of the St. Lambert Lock at Montreal in the Province of Quebec, Canada,” but does not include such of the connecting and tributary waters as may be specified in the Technical Regulations. The Technical Regulations do not include any connecting and tributary waters except the St. Mary's River, the St. Clair River, Lake St. Clair, the Detroit River and the Welland Canal. A vessel to which the Great Lakes Radio Agreement applies and which falls into the specific categories by paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of this section and not excepted by paragraph (d) or (e) of this section must comply with this subpart while navigated on the Great Lakes.

(a) Every vessel 20 meters (65 feet) or over in length (measured from end to end over the deck, exclusive of sheer).

(b) Every vessel engaged in towing another vessel or floating object, except:

(1) Where the maximum length of the towing vessel, measured from end to end over the deck exclusive of sheer, is less than 8 meters (26 feet) and the length or breadth of the tow, exclusive of the towing line, is less than 20 meters (65 feet);

(2) Where the vessel towed complies with this subpart;

(3) Where the towing vessel and tow are located within a booming ground (an area in which logs are confined); or

(4) Where the tow has been undertaken in an emergency and neither the towing vessel nor the tow can comply with this part.

(c) Any vessel carrying more than six passengers for hire.

(d) The requirements of the Great Lakes Radio Agreement do not apply to:

(1) Ships of war and troop ships;

(2) Vessels owned and operated by any national government and not engaged in trade.

(e) The Commission may if it considers that the conditions of the voyage or voyages affecting safety (including but not necessarily limited to the regularity, frequency and nature of the voyages, or other circumstances) are such as to render full application of the Great Lakes Agreement unreasonable or unnecessary, exempt partially, conditionally or completely, any individual vessel for one or more voyages or for any period of time not exceeding one year.

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2023-11-09 issue
Title: 7: Agriculture - Sections changed: 2
Title: 15: Commerce and Foreign Trade - Sections changed: 1
Title: 48: Federal Acquisition Regulations System - Sections changed: 16
Title: 21: Food and Drugs - Sections changed: 1
Title: 40: Protection of Environment - Sections changed: 2
Title: 47: Telecommunication - Sections changed: 19
Title: 49: Transportation - Sections changed: 1
Title: 50: Wildlife and Fisheries - Sections changed: 11

cfr/title-47-Telecommunication/chapter-I-Federal-Communications-Commission/subchapter-D-Safety-Special-Radio-Services/part-80-Stations-Maritime-Services/subpart-T-Radiotelephone-Installation-Required-Vessels-Great-Lakes/section-80.951.md, after:

##### § 80.951 Applicability. #####

The rules in this subpart apply to vessels of all countries when navigated on the Great Lakes. The Great Lakes are defined as all waters of Lakes Ontario, Erie, Huron (including Georgian Bay), Michigan, Superior, their connecting and tributary waters and the River St. Lawrence as far east as the lower exit of the St. Lambert Lock at Montreal in the Province of Quebec, Canada, but do not include any connecting and tributary waters except the St. Marys River, the St. Clair River, Lake St. Clair, the Detroit River and the Welland Canal. A vessel that falls into a category specified in paragraph (a), (b), or (c) of this section and is not excepted by paragraph (d) or (e) of this section must comply with this subpart while navigated on the Great Lakes.

(a) Every vessel 20 meters (65 feet) or over in length (measured from end to end over the deck, exclusive of sheer).

(b) Every vessel engaged in towing another vessel or floating object, except:

(1) Where the maximum length of the towing vessel, measured from end to end over the deck exclusive of sheer, is less than 8 meters (26 feet) and the length or breadth of the tow, exclusive of the towing line, is less than 20 meters (65 feet);

(2) Where the vessel towed complies with this subpart;

(3) Where the towing vessel and tow are located within a booming ground (an area in which logs are confined); or

(4) Where the tow has been undertaken in an emergency and neither the towing vessel nor the tow can comply with this part

(c) Any vessel carrying more than six passengers for hire.

(d) The requirements of this subpart do not apply to:

(1) Ships of war and troop ships;

(2) Vessels owned and operated by any national government and not engaged in trade.

(e) The Commission may if it considers that the conditions of the voyage or voyages affecting safety (including but not necessarily limited to the regularity, frequency and nature of the voyages, or other circumstances) are such as to render full application of the rules of this subpart unreasonable or unnecessary, exempt partially, conditionally or completely, any individual vessel for one or more voyages or for any period of time not exceeding one year.
