cfr/title-50-Wildlife-Fisheries/chapter-I-United-States-Fish-Wildlife-Service-Department-Interior/subchapter-C-The-National-Wildlife-Refuge-System/part-32-Hunting-Fishing/subpart-B-RefugeSpecific-Regulations-Hunting-Fishing/section-32.64.md, before:

##### § 32.64 Vermont. #####

The following refuge units are open for hunting and/or fishing as governed by applicable Federal and State regulations, and are listed in alphabetical order with additional refuge-specific regulations.

(a) *Missisquoi National Wildlife Refuge* - (1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of goose, duck, brant, merganser, coot, woodcock, and snipe on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) In the Delta Lakeshore Area:

(A) We prohibit blind staking and unattended decoys.

(B) We prohibit jumpshooting within 200 yards of a party hunting from a boat or blind.

(ii) In the Maquam Shore Area:

(A) We do not require a refuge permit to hunt or scout in this area.

(B) We prohibit jumpshooting within 200 yards (183 meters) of a party hunting from a boat or blind.

(iii) In the Saxes Pothole/Creek and Shad Island Pothole:

(A) This is a controlled hunting area. We require a refuge permit (FWS Form 3-2439, Hunt Application - National Wildlife Refuge System) to hunt in this area.

(B) Each hunting party must possess and carry a permit (FWS Form 3-2439, Hunt Application - National Wildlife Refuge System) for the specific zone on the specific day they are hunting in this area. Permits are not transferable.

(C) You must use a dog to retrieve migratory game birds.

(iv) In the Junior Waterfowl Hunting Area:

(A) This is a controlled hunting area. We require a refuge permit (FWS Form 3-2439, Hunt Application - National Wildlife Refuge System) to hunt in this area.

(B) Each junior hunter must possess and carry a permit (FWS Form 3-2439, Hunt Application - National Wildlife Refuge System) for the assigned blind site and day. On Mentor Day, mentors must also possess and carry this permit for the assigned blind site. Each adult hunting party must possess and carry a permit for the blind site and day they are hunting. Permits are not transferable.

(C) Shooting hours end at 11 a.m.

(v) In the Long Marsh Channel and Metcalfe Island:

(A) This is a controlled hunting area. We require a refuge permit (FWS Form 3-2439, Hunt Application - National Wildlife Refuge System) to hunt in this area.

(B) We limit hunting to Tuesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays throughout the waterfowl hunting season for duck.

(C) Each hunting party must possess and carry a permit for the blind on the specific day they are hunting in this area. Permits are not transferable.

(D) Shooting hours end at 11 a.m.

(E) You must use a dog to retrieve migratory game birds.

(F) We close this area to waterfowl hunting during split seasons when geese are the only waterfowl that hunters may legally take.

(vi) In the Maquam Swamp Area:

(A) We prohibit blind staking and unattended decoys.

(B) You must use a dog to retrieve migratory game birds.

(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of cottontail rabbit, snowshoe hare, ruffed grouse, and gray squirrel on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) You must obtain a signed refuge hunt brochure (signed brochure) at refuge headquarters prior to hunting, and you must hold a valid State hunting license.

(ii) We only allow shotguns or muzzleloaders on open areas east of the Missisquoi River and on Shad Island.

(iii) We prohibit hunting from the end of snowshoe hare and rabbit season through September 1.

(iv) On the Eagle Point Unit, conditions in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section do not apply.

(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of white-tailed deer, moose, bear, and turkey on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) You must obtain a signed refuge hunt brochure (signed brochure) at refuge headquarters prior to hunting, and you must hold a valid State hunting license.

(ii) We only allow shotguns, muzzleloaders, or archery equipment on open areas east and north of Vermont Route 78. We prohibit rifles in these areas at any time.

(iii) You may use portable tree stands as governed by State regulations guiding their use on State wildlife management areas with the following exception: We allow only one tree stand or ground blind for each signed refuge hunt brochure (signed brochure) we issue.

(iv) On the Eagle Point Unit, we allow hunting subject to the following conditions:

(A) You may use portable tree stands as governed by State regulations guiding their use on State wildlife management areas.

(B) We allow training of dogs during the regular hunting seasons as governed by State regulations. We allow dog training outside the regular hunting seasons (*i.e.,* from June 1 through July 31) only with a Special Use Permit (Permit Application Form: National Wildlife Refuge System General Special Use, FWS Form 3-1383-G).

(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) We allow sport fishing (including bow fishing) by boat and ice fishing in designated areas with the following exceptions:

(A) We close the following areas from ice-out to July 15: Goose Bay, Saxes Creek and Pothole, Metcalfe Island Pothole, Long Marsh Channel, and Clark Marsh.

(B) We close the following areas from Labor Day to December 31: Long Marsh Bay and Long Marsh Channel.

(ii) We allow bank fishing along designated areas of Charcoal Creek.

(iii) We prohibit taking fish with firearms within refuge boundaries.

(iv) We allow boat launching from Louie's Landing year-round. We allow boat launching from Mac's Bend boat launch area from September through November (inclusive).

(b) *Silvio O. Conte National Fish and Wildlife Refuge* - (1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of duck, goose, crow, and American woodcock on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: We allow disabled hunters to hunt from a vehicle that is at least 10 feet from the traveled portion of the refuge road if the hunter possesses a State-issued disabled hunting license and a Special Use Permit (FWS Form 3-1383-G) issued by the refuge manager.

(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of coyote, fox, raccoon, bobcat, woodchuck, red squirrel, eastern gray squirrel, porcupine, skunk, snowshoe hare, eastern cottontail, and ruffed grouse on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) We allow disabled hunters to hunt from a vehicle that is at least 10 feet from the traveled portion of the refuge road if the hunter possesses a State-issued disabled hunting license and a Special Use Permit (FWS Form 3-1383-G) issued by the refuge manager.

(ii) Shooting from, over, or within 10 feet of the traveled portion of any gravel road is prohibited (see § 25.71 of this chapter).

(iii) We require hunters hunting at night to possess a Special Use Permit (FWS Form 3-1383-G) issued by the refuge manager.

(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of white-tailed deer, moose, black bear, and wild turkey on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) The condition set forth at paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section applies.

(ii) We allow disabled hunters to hunt from a vehicle that is at least 10 feet from the traveled portion of the refuge road if the hunter possesses a State-issued disabled hunting license and a Special Use Permit (FWS Form 3-1383-G) issued by the refuge manager.

(iii) You may use portable tree stands and blinds as governed by State regulations guiding their use on State wildlife management areas. You must remove tree stands and blinds by the end of the final deer season (see § 27.93 of this chapter).

(iv) You may retrieve moose at the Nulhegan Basin Division with the use of a commercial moose hauler, if the hauler possesses a Special Use Permit (FWS Form 3-1383-C) issued by the refuge manager.

(4) [Reserved]

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2020-08-31 issue
Title: 8: Aliens and Nationality - Sections changed: 4
Title: 12: Banks and Banking - Sections changed: 20
Title: 17: Commodity and Securities Exchanges - Sections changed: 22
Title: 48: Federal Acquisition Regulations System - Sections changed: 27
Title: 29: Labor - Sections changed: 9
Title: 40: Protection of Environment - Sections changed: 1
Title: 41: Public Contracts and Property Management - Sections changed: 3
Title: 42: Public Health - Sections changed: 1
Title: 50: Wildlife and Fisheries - Sections changed: 49

cfr/title-50-Wildlife-Fisheries/chapter-I-United-States-Fish-Wildlife-Service-Department-Interior/subchapter-C-The-National-Wildlife-Refuge-System/part-32-Hunting-Fishing/subpart-B-RefugeSpecific-Regulations-Hunting-Fishing/section-32.64.md, after:

##### § 32.64 Vermont. #####

The following refuge units are open for hunting and/or fishing as governed by applicable Federal and State regulations, and are listed in alphabetical order with additional refuge-specific regulations.

(a) *Missisquoi National Wildlife Refuge* - (1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of goose, duck, brant, merganser, coot, woodcock, and snipe on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) In the Delta Lakeshore Area:

(A) We prohibit blind staking and unattended decoys.

(B) We prohibit jumpshooting within 200 yards of a party hunting from a boat or blind.

(ii) In the Maquam Shore Area:

(A) We do not require a refuge permit to hunt or scout in this area.

(B) We prohibit jumpshooting within 200 yards (183 meters) of a party hunting from a boat or blind.

(iii) In the Saxes Pothole/Creek and Shad Island Pothole:

(A) This is a controlled hunting area. We require a refuge permit (FWS Form 3-2439, Hunt Application - National Wildlife Refuge System) to hunt in this area.

(B) Each hunting party must possess and carry a permit (FWS Form 3-2439, Hunt Application - National Wildlife Refuge System) for the specific zone on the specific day they are hunting in this area. Permits are not transferable.

(C) You must use a dog to retrieve migratory game birds.

(iv) In the Junior Waterfowl Hunting Area:

(A) This is a controlled hunting area. We require a refuge permit (FWS Form 3-2439, Hunt Application - National Wildlife Refuge System) to hunt in this area.

(B) Each junior hunter must possess and carry a permit (FWS Form 3-2439, Hunt Application - National Wildlife Refuge System) for the assigned blind site and day. On Mentor Day, mentors must also possess and carry this permit for the assigned blind site. Each adult hunting party must possess and carry a permit for the blind site and day they are hunting. Permits are not transferable.

(C) Shooting hours end at 11 a.m.

(v) In the Long Marsh Channel and Metcalfe Island:

(A) This is a controlled hunting area. We require a refuge permit (FWS Form 3-2439, Hunt Application - National Wildlife Refuge System) to hunt in this area.

(B) We limit hunting to Tuesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays throughout the waterfowl hunting season for duck.

(C) Each hunting party must possess and carry a permit for the blind on the specific day they are hunting in this area. Permits are not transferable.

(D) Shooting hours end at 11 a.m.

(E) You must use a dog to retrieve migratory game birds.

(F) We close this area to waterfowl hunting during split seasons when geese are the only waterfowl that hunters may legally take.

(vi) In the Maquam Swamp Area:

(A) We prohibit blind staking and unattended decoys.

(B) You must use a dog to retrieve migratory game birds.

(vii) In all hunting areas, we allow the use of dogs consistent with State regulations.

(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of cottontail rabbit, snowshoe hare, ruffed grouse, and gray squirrel on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) You must obtain a signed refuge hunt brochure (signed brochure) at refuge headquarters prior to hunting, and you must hold a valid State hunting license.

(ii) We only allow shotguns or muzzleloaders on open areas east of the Missisquoi River and on Shad Island.

(iii) We prohibit hunting from the end of snowshoe hare and rabbit season through September 1.

(iv) On the Eagle Point Unit, conditions in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section do not apply.

(v) The condition set forth at paragraph (a)(1)(vii) of this section applies.

(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of white-tailed deer, moose, bear, and turkey on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) You must obtain a signed refuge hunt brochure (signed brochure) at refuge headquarters prior to hunting, and you must hold a valid State hunting license.

(ii) We only allow shotguns, muzzleloaders, or archery equipment on open areas east and north of Vermont Route 78. We prohibit rifles in these areas at any time.

(iii) You may use portable tree stands as governed by State regulations guiding their use on State wildlife management areas with the following exception: We allow only one tree stand or ground blind for each signed refuge hunt brochure (signed brochure) we issue.

(iv) On the Eagle Point Unit, we allow hunting subject to the following conditions:

(A) You may use portable tree stands as governed by State regulations guiding their use on State wildlife management areas.

(B) We allow training of dogs during the regular hunting seasons as governed by State regulations. We allow dog training outside the regular hunting seasons (*i.e.,* from June 1 through July 31) only with a Special Use Permit (Permit Application Form: National Wildlife Refuge System General Special Use, FWS Form 3-1383-G).

(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) We allow sport fishing (including bow fishing) by boat and ice fishing in designated areas with the following exceptions:

(A) We close the following areas: Goose Bay, Saxes Creek and Pothole, Metcalfe Island Pothole, Long Marsh Channel, and Clark Marsh.

(B) We close the following areas from Labor Day to December 31: Long Marsh Bay and Long Marsh Channel.

(ii) We allow bank fishing along designated areas of Charcoal Creek.

(iii) We prohibit taking fish with firearms within refuge boundaries.

(iv) We allow boat launching from Louie's Landing year-round. We allow boat launching from Mac's Bend boat launch area from September through November (inclusive).

(b) *Silvio O. Conte National Fish and Wildlife Refuge* - (1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of duck, goose, crow, and American woodcock on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) We allow disabled hunters to hunt from a vehicle that is at least 10 feet from the traveled portion of the refuge road if the hunter possesses a State-issued disabled hunting license and a Special Use Permit (FWS Form 3-1383-G) issued by the refuge manager.

(ii) We allow the use of dogs consistent with State regulations.

(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of coyote, fox, raccoon, bobcat, woodchuck, red squirrel, eastern gray squirrel, porcupine, skunk, snowshoe hare, eastern cottontail, and ruffed grouse on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section apply.

(ii) Shooting from, over, or within 10 feet of the traveled portion of any gravel road is prohibited.

(iii) We require hunters hunting at night to possess a Special Use Permit (FWS Form 3-1383-G) issued by the refuge manager.

(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of white-tailed deer, moose, black bear, and wild turkey on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:

(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (b)(2)(ii) of this section apply.

(ii) You may use portable tree stands and/or blinds. You must clearly label your tree stands and/or blinds with your hunting license number.

(iii) You may retrieve moose at the Nulhegan Basin Division with the use of a commercial moose hauler, if the hauler possesses a Special Use Permit (FWS Form 3-1383-C) issued by the refuge manager.

(4) [Reserved]

[84 FR 47675, Sept. 10, 2019, as amended at 85 FR 54141, Aug. 31, 2020]
