##### ยง 1.280C-3 Disallowance of certain deductions for qualified clinical testing expenses when section 28 credit is allowable. #####

(a) *In general.* If a taxpayer is entitled to a credit under section 28 for qualified clinical testing expenses (as defined in section 28(b)), it must reduce the amount of any deduction for qualified clinical testing expenses paid or incurred in the year the credit is earned by the amount allowable as credit for such expenses (determined without regard to section 28(d)(2)).

(b) *Capitalization of qualified clinical testing expenses.* In a case in which qualified clinical testing expenses are capitalized, the amount chargeable to the capital account for a taxable year must be reduced by the excess of the amount of the credit allowable for the taxable year under section 28 (determined without regard to section 28(d)(2)) over the amount allowable as a deduction for qualified clinical testing expenses (determined without regard to paragraph (a) of this section) for the taxable year. See section 174 and the regulations thereunder.

(c) *Controlled group of corporations; organizations under common control.* In the case of a taxpayer described in paragraph (d)(5) of ยง 1.28-1 of this chapter (relating to controlled groups of corporations and organizations under common control), paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall be applied in accordance with the rules prescribed for aggregation of expenditures under that paragraph.

(d) *Example.* The following example illustrates the application of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section:

Example.A incurs $1,000 in clinical testing expenses for which a $500 credit is allowable under section 28. A also elects under section 174 of the Code to amortize these expenses over a 5-year period beginning in the year the credit is claimed. Under paragraph (a), the current year amortization deduction of $200 ($1,000 รท 5) is disallowed. Moreover, the amount which would otherwise be capitalized, $800, is reduced by the excess of the amount of the section 28 credit claimed for the taxable year over the amount of the allowable section 174 amortization deduction for the taxable year, or $300 ($500-$200). Thus, the amount chargeable to the capital account for the taxable year is $500 ($800-$300). A is entitled to amortize $500 over the remaining amortization period resulting in a deduction of $125 for each of the remaining four years.[T.D. 8232, 53 FR 38715, Oct. 3, 1988]