##### § 1.269-6 Relationship of section 269 to section 382 before the Tax Reform Act of 1986. #####

Section 269 and §§ 1.269-1 through 1.269-5 may be applied to disallow a net operating loss carryover even though such carryover is not disallowed (in whole or in part) under section 382 and the regulations thereunder. This section may be illustrated by the following examples:

Example 1.L Corporation has computed its taxable income on a calendar year basis and has sustained heavy net operating losses for a number of years. Assume that A purchases all of the stock of L Corporation on December 31, 1955, for the principal purpose of utilizing its net operating loss carryovers by changing its business to a profitable new business. Assume further that A makes no attempt to revitalize the business of L Corporation during the calendar year 1956 and that during January 1957 the business is changed to an entirely new and profitable business. The carryovers will be disallowed under the provisions of section 269(a) without regard to the application of section 382.Example 2.L Corporation has sustained heavy net operating losses for a number of years. In a merger under State law, P Corporation acquires all of the assets of L Corporation for the principal purpose of utilizing the net operating loss carryovers of L Corporation against the profits of P Corporation's business. As a result of the merger, the former stockholders of L Corporation own, immediately after the merger, 12 percent of the fair market value of the outstanding stock of P Corporation. If the merger qualifies as a reorganization to which section 381(a) applies, the entire net operating loss carryovers will be disallowed under the provisions of section 269(a) without regard to the application of section 382.Example 3.L Corporation has been sustaining net operating losses for a number of years. P Corporation, a profitable corporation, on December 31, 1955, acquires all the stock of L Corporation for the purpose of continuing and improving the operation of L Corporation's business. Under the provisions of sections 334(b)(2) and 381(a)(1), P Corporation would not succeed to L Corporation's net operating loss carryovers if L Corporation were liquidated pursuant to a plan of liquidation adopted within two years after the date of the acquisition. During 1956, P Corporation transfers a profitable business to L Corporation for the principal purpose of using the profits of such business to absorb the net operating loss carryovers of L Corporation. The transfer is such as to cause the basis of the transferred assets in the hands of L Corporation to be determined by reference to their basis in the hands of P Corporation. L Corporation's net operating loss carryovers will be disallowed under the provisions of section 269(a) without regard to the application of section 382.[T.D. 6595, 27 FR 3597, Apr. 14, 1962, as amended by T.D. 8388, 57 FR 346, Jan. 6, 1992]