##### ยง 71.1 Applicability. #####

Link to an amendment published at 89 FR 68338, Aug. 26, 2024.

A listing for Class A, B, C, D, and E airspace areas; air traffic service routes; and reporting points can be found in FAA Order JO 7400.11H, Airspace Designations and Reporting Points, dated August 11, 2023. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. The approval to incorporate by reference FAA Order JO 7400.11H is effective September 15, 2023, through September 15, 2024. During the incorporation by reference period, proposed changes to the listings of Class A, B, C, D, and E airspace areas; air traffic service routes; and reporting points will be published in full text as proposed rule documents in the Federal Register, unless there is good cause to forego notice and comment. Amendments to the listings of Class A, B, C, D, and E airspace areas; air traffic service routes; and reporting points will be published in full text as final rules in the Federal Register. Periodically, the final rule amendments will be integrated into a revised edition of the Order and submitted to the Director of the Federal Register for approval for incorporation by reference in this section. This incorporation by reference (IBR) material is available for inspection at the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). Contact the FAA at: Rules and Regulations Group, Federal Aviation Administration, 800 Independence Avenue SW, Washington, DC 20591, (202) 267-8783. An electronic version of FAA Order JO 7400.11H is available on the FAA website at *www.faa.gov/air\_traffic/publications.* Copies of FAA Order JO 7400.11H may be inspected in Docket No. FAA-2023-1785; Amendment No. 71-55, on *www.regulations.gov.* For information on the availability of this material at NARA, visit *www.archives.gov/federalregister/cfr/ibr-locations.html* or email *fr.inspection@nara.gov*.

[Docket No. FAA-2023-1785; Amendment No. 71-55, 88 FR 58072, Aug. 25, 2023]Effective Date Note:By Docket No. FAA-2023-1785; Amendment No. 71-55, 88 FR 58072, Aug. 25, 2023, ยง 71.1 was revised, effective Sept. 15, 2023 through Sept. 15, 2024.