##### ยง 1710.203 Requirement to prepare a load forecast - distribution borrowers. #####

Link to an amendment published at 84 FR 32610, July 9, 2019.

(a) A distribution borrower that is a member of a power supply borrower with a total utility plant of $500 million or more must maintain an approved load forecast that meets the requirements of this subpart on an ongoing basis and provide an approved load forecast in support of any request for RUS financial assistance. The distribution borrower may comply with this requirement by participation in and inclusion of its load forecasting information in the approved load forecast of its power supply borrower. The distribution borrower's load forecast must be prepared pursuant to the approved load forecast work plan of its power supply borrower.

(b) A distribution borrower that is a member of a power supply borrower which is itself a member of another power supply borrower that has a total utility plant of $500 million or more must maintain an approved load forecast that meets the requirements of this subpart on an ongoing basis and provide an approved load forecast in support of any request for RUS financial assistance. The distribution borrower may comply with this requirement by participation in and inclusion of its load forecasting information in the approved load forecast of its power supply borrower. The distribution borrower's approved load forecast must be prepared pursuant to the approved load forecast work plan of the power supply borrower with total utility plant in excess of $500 million.

(c) A distribution borrower that is a member of a power supply borrower with a total utility plant of less than $500 million must provide an approved load forecast that meets the requirements of this subpart in support of an application for any RUS loan or loan guarantee that exceeds $3 million or 5 percent of total utility plant, whichever is greater. The distribution borrower may comply with this requirement by participation in and inclusion of its load forecasting information in the approved load forecast of its power supply borrower. The borrower is not required to maintain on an ongoing basis either an approved load forecast or an approved load forecast work plan.

(d) A distribution borrower with a total utility plant of less than $500 million and that is unaffiliated with a power supply borrower must provide an approved load forecast that meets the requirements of this subpart in support of an application for any RUS loan or loan guarantee which exceeds $3 million or 5 percent of total utility plant, whichever is greater. The borrower is not required to maintain on an ongoing basis either an approved load forecast or an approved load forecast work plan.

(e) A distribution borrower with a total utility plant of $500 million or more must maintain an approved load forecast that meets the requirements of this subpart on an ongoing basis and provide an approved load forecast in support of any request for RUS financing assistance. The borrower must also maintain an approved load forecast work plan. The distribution borrower may comply with this requirement by participation in and inclusion of its load forecasting information in the approved load forecast of its power supply borrower.

(f) Notwithstanding paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section, a distribution borrower that has an outstanding loan for an Eligible EE Program is required to maintain an approved load forecast and an approved load forecast work plan on an ongoing basis.

[57 FR 1053, Jan. 9, 1992, as amended at 78 FR 73366, Dec. 5, 2013]