##### § 30.701 How are medical bills to be submitted? #####

(a) All charges for medical and surgical treatment, appliances or supplies furnished to employees, except for treatment and supplies provided by nursing homes, shall be supported by medical evidence as provided in § 30.700. The physician or provider shall itemize the charges on Form OWCP-1500 or CMS-1500 (for professional charges), Form OWCP-04 or UB-04 (for hospitals), an electronic or paper-based bill that includes required data elements (for pharmacies), or other form as warranted, and submit the form or bill promptly for processing.

(b) The provider shall identify each service performed using the Physician's Current Procedural Terminology (CPT) code, the Healthcare Common Procedure Coding System (HCPCS) code, the National Drug Code (NDC) number, or the Revenue Center Code (RCC), with a brief narrative description. Where no code is applicable, a detailed description of services performed should be provided.

(c) For professional charges billed on Form OWCP-1500 or CMS-1500, the provider shall also state each diagnosed condition and furnish the corresponding diagnostic code using the “International Classification of Disease, 9th Edition, Clinical Modification” (ICD-9-CM), or as revised. A separate bill shall be submitted when the employee is discharged from treatment or monthly, if treatment for the occupational illness is necessary for more than 30 days.

(1)(i) Hospitals shall submit charges for medical and surgical treatment or supplies promptly on Form OWCP-04 or UB-04. The provider shall identify each outpatient radiology service, outpatient pathology service and physical therapy service performed, using HCPCS/CPT codes with a brief narrative description. The charge for each individual service, or the total charge for all identical services, should also appear on the form.

(ii) Other outpatient hospital services for which HCPCS/CPT codes exist shall also be coded individually using the coding scheme noted in this section. Services for which there are no HCPCS/CPT codes available can be presented using the RCCs described in the “National Uniform Billing Data Elements Specifications,” current edition. The provider shall also furnish the diagnostic code using the ICD-9-CM. If the outpatient hospital services include surgical and/or invasive procedures, the provider shall code each procedure using the proper HCPCS/CPT codes and furnishing the corresponding diagnostic codes using the ICD-9-CM.

(2) Pharmacies shall itemize charges for prescription medications, appliances, or supplies on electronic or paper-based bills and submit them promptly for processing. Bills for prescription medications must include all required data elements, including the NDC number assigned to the product, the generic or trade name of the drug provided, the prescription number, the quantity provided, and the date the prescription was filled.

(3) Nursing homes shall itemize charges for appliances, supplies or services on the provider's billhead stationery and submit them promptly for processing.

(d) By submitting a bill and/or accepting payment, the provider signifies that the service for which payment is sought was performed as described and was necessary. In addition, the provider thereby agrees to comply with all regulations set forth in this subpart concerning the rendering of treatment and/or the process for seeking payment for medical services, including the limitation imposed on the amount to be paid for such services.

(e) In summary, bills submitted by providers must: Be itemized on Form OWCP-1500 or CMS-1500 (for physicians), Form OWCP-04 or UB-04 (for hospitals), or an electronic or paper-based bill that includes required data elements (for pharmacies); contain the signature or signature stamp of the provider; and identify the procedures using HCPCS/CPT codes, RCCs, or NDC numbers. Otherwise, the bill may be returned to the provider for correction and resubmission. The decision of OWCP whether to pay a provider's bill is final when issued and is not subject to the adjudicatory process described in subpart D of this part.