cfr/title-27-Alcohol-Tobacco-Products-Firearms/chapter-II-Bureau-Alcohol-Tobacco-Firearms-Explosives-Department-Justice/subchapter-B-Firearms-Ammunition/part-478-Commerce-Firearms-Ammunition/subpart-I-Exemptions-Seizures-Forfeitures/section-478.152.md, before:

##### § 478.152 Seizure and forfeiture. #####

Link to an amendment published at 89 FR 28633, Apr. 19, 2024.

(a) Any firearm or ammunition involved in or used in any knowing violation of subsections (a)(4), (a)(6), (f), (g), (h), (i), (j), or (k) of section 922 of the Act, or knowing importation or bringing into the United States or any possession thereof any firearm or ammunition in violation of section 922(l) of the Act, or knowing violation of section 924 of the Act, or willful violation of any other provision of the Act or of this part, or any violation of any other criminal law of the United States, or any firearm or ammunition intended to be used in any offense referred to in paragraph (c) of this section, where such intent is demonstrated by clear and convincing evidence, shall be subject to seizure and forfeiture, and all provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 relating to the seizure, forfeiture, and disposition of firearms, as defined in section 5845(a) of that Code, shall, so far as applicable, extend to seizures and forfeitures under the provisions of the Act: *Provided,* That upon acquittal of the owner or possessor, or dismissal of the charges against such person other than upon motion of the Government prior to trial, or lapse of or court termination of the restraining order to which he is subject, the seized or relinquished firearms or ammunition shall be returned forthwith to the owner or possessor or to a person delegated by the owner or possessor unless the return of the firearms or ammunition would place the owner or possessor or the delegate of the owner or possessor in violation of law. Any action or proceeding for the forfeiture of firearms or ammunition shall be commenced within 120 days of such seizure.

(b) Only those firearms or quantities of ammunition particularly named and individually identified as involved in or used in any violation of the provisions of the Act or this part, or any other criminal law of the United States or as intended to be used in any offense referred to in paragraph (c) of this section, where such intent is demonstrated by clear and convincing evidence, shall be subject to seizure, forfeiture and disposition.

(c) The offenses referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section for which firearms and ammunition intended to be used in such offenses are subject to seizure and forfeiture are:

(1) Any crime of violence, as that term is defined in section 924(c)(3) of the Act;

(2) Any offense punishable under the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 801 *et seq.*) or the Controlled Substances Import and Export Act (21 U.S.C. 951 *et seq.*);

(3) Any offense described in section 922(a)(1), 922(a)(3), 922(a)(5), or 922(b)(3) of the Act, where the firearm or ammunition intended to be used in such offense is involved in a pattern of activities which includes a violation of any offense described in section 922(a)(1), 922(a)(3), 922(a)(5), or 922(b)(3) of the Act;

(4) Any offense described in section 922(d) of the Act where the firearm or ammunition is intended to be used in such offense by the transferor of such firearm or ammunition;

(5) Any offense described in section 922(i), 922(j), 922(l), 922(n), or 924(b) of the Act; and

(6) Any offense which may be prosecuted in a court of the United States which involves the exportation of firearms or ammunition.

[T.D. ATF-270, 53 FR 10507, Mar. 31, 1988; Redesignated by T.D. ATF-354, 59 FR 7114, Feb. 14, 1994, and further redesignated by T.D. ATF-361, 60 FR 10788, Feb. 27, 1995; T.D. ATF-363, 60 FR 17455, Apr. 6, 1995]

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2024-07-18 issue
Title: 4: Accounts - Sections changed: 20
Title: 14: Aeronautics and Space - Sections changed: 42
Title: 7: Agriculture - Sections changed: 11
Title: 27: Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms - Sections changed: 7
Title: 15: Commerce and Foreign Trade - Sections changed: 25
Title: 26: Internal Revenue - Sections changed: 9
Title: 38: Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief - Sections changed: 3
Title: 40: Protection of Environment - Sections changed: 6

cfr/title-27-Alcohol-Tobacco-Products-Firearms/chapter-II-Bureau-Alcohol-Tobacco-Firearms-Explosives-Department-Justice/subchapter-B-Firearms-Ammunition/part-478-Commerce-Firearms-Ammunition/subpart-I-Exemptions-Seizures-Forfeitures/section-478.152.md, after:

##### § 478.152 Seizure and forfeiture. #####

(a) Any firearm or ammunition involved in or used in any knowing violation of subsections (a)(4), (a)(6), (f), (g), (h), (i), (j), or (k) of section 922 of the Act, or knowing importation or bringing into the United States or any possession thereof any firearm or ammunition in violation of section 922(l) of the Act, or knowing violation of section 924 of the Act, or willful violation of any other provision of the Act or of this part, or any violation of any other criminal law of the United States, or any firearm or ammunition intended to be used in any offense referred to in paragraph (c) of this section, where such intent is demonstrated by clear and convincing evidence, shall be subject to seizure and forfeiture, and all provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 relating to the seizure, forfeiture, and disposition of firearms, as defined in section 5845(a) of that Code, shall, so far as applicable, extend to seizures and forfeitures under the provisions of the Act: *Provided,* That upon acquittal of the owner or possessor, or dismissal of the charges against such person other than upon motion of the Government prior to trial, or lapse of or court termination of the restraining order to which he is subject, the seized or relinquished firearms or ammunition shall be returned forthwith to the owner or possessor or to a person delegated by the owner or possessor unless the return of the firearms or ammunition would place the owner or possessor or the delegate of the owner or possessor in violation of law. Any action or proceeding for the forfeiture of firearms or ammunition shall be commenced within 120 days of such seizure.

(b) Only those firearms or quantities of ammunition particularly named and individually identified as involved in or used in any violation of the provisions of the Act or this part, or any other criminal law of the United States or as intended to be used in any offense referred to in paragraph (c) of this section, where such intent is demonstrated by clear and convincing evidence, shall be subject to seizure, forfeiture and disposition.

(c) The offenses referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section for which firearms and ammunition intended to be used in such offenses are subject to seizure and forfeiture are:

(1) Any crime of violence, as that term is defined in section 924(c)(3) of the Act;

(2) Any offense punishable under the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 801 *et seq.*) or the Controlled Substances Import and Export Act (21 U.S.C. 951 *et seq.*);

(3) Any offense described in section 922(a)(1), 922(a)(3), 922(a)(5), or 922(b)(3) of the Act, where the firearm or ammunition intended to be used in such offense is involved in a pattern of activities which includes a violation of any offense described in section 922(a)(1), 922(a)(3), 922(a)(5), or 922(b)(3) of the Act;

(4) Any offense described in section 922(d) of the Act where the firearm or ammunition is intended to be used in such offense by the transferor of such firearm or ammunition;

(5) Any offense described in section 922(i), 922(j), 922(l), 922(n), or 924(b) of the Act; and

(6) Any offense which may be prosecuted in a court of the United States which involves the exportation of firearms or ammunition.

(d) Any person convicted of a violation of section 932 or 933 of the Act shall forfeit to the United States, irrespective of any provision of State law—

(1) Any property constituting, or derived from, any proceeds the person obtained, directly or indirectly, as the result of such violation; and

(2) Any of the person's property used, or intended to be used, in any manner or part, to commit, or to facilitate the commission of, such violation, except that for any forfeiture of any firearm or ammunition pursuant to this section, 18 U.S.C. 924(d) shall apply.

(e) A defendant who derives profits or other proceeds from an offense under section 932 or 933 of the Act may be fined not more than the greater of—

(1) The fine otherwise authorized by part I of title 18 of the U.S. Code; or

(2) The amount equal to twice the gross profits or other proceeds of the offense under section 932 or 933.

[T.D. ATF-270, 53 FR 10507, Mar. 31, 1988; Redesignated by T.D. ATF-354, 59 FR 7114, Feb. 14, 1994, and further redesignated by T.D. ATF-361, 60 FR 10788, Feb. 27, 1995; T.D. ATF-363, 60 FR 17455, Apr. 6, 1995; ATF 2022R-09, 89 FR 28632, Apr. 19, 2024]
