cfr/title-19-Customs-Duties/chapter-I-US-Customs-Border-Protection-Department-Homeland-Security-Department-Treasury/part-181-North-American-Free-Trade-Agreement/subpart-J-Review-Appeal-Adverse-Marking-Decisions/section-181.112.md, before:

##### § 181.112 Definitions. #####

Link to an amendment published at 81 FR 93026, December 20, 2016.

For purposes of this subpart, the following words and phrases have the meanings indicated:

(a) *Adverse marking decision* means a decision made by the port director which an exporter or producer of merchandise believes to be contrary to the provisions of Annex 311 of the NAFTA and which may be protested by the importer pursuant to § 514, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1514), and part 174 of this chapter. Notification of an adverse marking decision is given to an importer in the form of a Customs Form 4647, or its electronic equivalent, (Notice to Mark and/or Notice to Redeliver) and/or by assessing marking duties on improperly marked merchandise. Examples of adverse marking decisions include determinations by the port director: that an imported article is not a good of a NAFTA country, as determined under the Marking Rules, and that it therefore cannot be marked “Canada” or “Mexico”; that a good of a NAFTA country is not marked in a manner which is sufficiently permanent; and that a good of a NAFTA country does not qualify for an exception from marking specified in Annex 311 of the NAFTA. Adverse marking decisions do not include: decisions issued in response to requests for advance rulings under subpart I of this part or for internal advice under part 177 of this chapter; decisions on protests under part 174 of this chapter; and determinations that an article does not qualify as an originating good under General Note 12, HTSUS, and the appendix to this part.

(b) An *exporter* of merchandise is an exporter located in Canada or Mexico who must maintain records in that country relating to the transaction to which the adverse marking decision relates. The records must be sufficient to enable Customs to evaluate the merits of the exporter's claim(s) regarding the adverse marking decision.

(c) A *producer* of merchandise is a person who grows, mines, harvests, fishes, traps, hunts, manufactures, processes or assembles such merchandise in Canada or Mexico.

[T.D. 95-68, 60 FR 46364, Sept. 6, 1995, as amended by CBP Dec. 15-14, 80 FR 61292, Oct. 13, 2015]

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2017-01-19 issue
Title: 9: Animals and Animal Products - Sections changed: 16
Title: 19: Customs Duties - Sections changed: 291
Title: 34: Education - Sections changed: 19
Title: 48: Federal Acquisition Regulations System - Sections changed: 30
Title: 2: Federal Financial Assistance - Sections changed: 1
Title: 21: Food and Drugs - Sections changed: 6
Title: 22: Foreign Relations - Sections changed: 22
Title: 23: Highways - Sections changed: 18
Title: 24: Housing and Urban Development - Sections changed: 21
Title: 29: Labor - Sections changed: 24
Title: 31: Money and Finance: Treasury - Sections changed: 22
Title: 32: National Defense - Sections changed: 9
Title: 37: Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights - Sections changed: 2
Title: 38: Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief - Sections changed: 7
Title: 39: Postal Service - Sections changed: 1
Title: 42: Public Health - Sections changed: 39
Title: 43: Public Lands: Interior - Sections changed: 10

cfr/title-19-Customs-Duties/chapter-I-US-Customs-Border-Protection-Department-Homeland-Security-Department-Treasury/part-181-North-American-Free-Trade-Agreement/subpart-J-Review-Appeal-Adverse-Marking-Decisions/section-181.112.md, after:

##### § 181.112 Definitions. #####

For purposes of this subpart, the following words and phrases have the meanings indicated:

(a) *Adverse marking decision* means a decision made by the port director or Center director before January 19, 2017, or the Center director on or after January 19, 2017, which an exporter or producer of merchandise believes to be contrary to the provisions of Annex 311 of the NAFTA and which may be protested by the importer pursuant to § 514, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1514), and part 174 of this chapter. Notification of an adverse marking decision is given to an importer in the form of a CBP Form 4647, or its electronic equivalent, (Notice to Mark and/or Notice to Redeliver) and/or by assessing marking duties on improperly marked merchandise. Examples of adverse marking decisions include determinations by the port director or Center director before December 20, 2016, or the Center director on or after January 19, 2017: That an imported article is not a good of a NAFTA country, as determined under the Marking Rules, and that it therefore cannot be marked “Canada” or “Mexico”; that a good of a NAFTA country is not marked in a manner which is sufficiently permanent; and that a good of a NAFTA country does not qualify for an exception from marking specified in Annex 311 of the NAFTA. Adverse marking decisions do not include: Decisions issued in response to requests for advance rulings under subpart I of this part or for internal advice under part 177 of this chapter; decisions on protests under part 174 of this chapter; and determinations that an article does not qualify as an originating good under General Note 12, HTSUS, and the appendix to this part.

(b) An *exporter* of merchandise is an exporter located in Canada or Mexico who must maintain records in that country relating to the transaction to which the adverse marking decision relates. The records must be sufficient to enable Customs to evaluate the merits of the exporter's claim(s) regarding the adverse marking decision.

(c) A *producer* of merchandise is a person who grows, mines, harvests, fishes, traps, hunts, manufactures, processes or assembles such merchandise in Canada or Mexico.

[T.D. 95-68, 60 FR 46364, Sept. 6, 1995, as amended by CBP Dec. 15-14, 80 FR 61292, Oct. 13, 2015; CBP Dec. No. 16-26, 81 FR 93026, Dec. 20, 2016]
