##### ยง 644.560 Inspections of civilian component training facilities and other properties conveyed subject to conditions. #####

The DE, within whose areas of military real estate operations are located the facilities conveyed under the authority mentioned in ยง 644.559, will make physical inspections thereof for the purpose of determining compliance with the terms of the conveyance. Any evidence of noncompliance should be reported to DAEN-REM in order that appropriate recommendations may be made to the respective Secretary for corrective action. A detailed statement of the facts and recommendations of the DE should be included in the report. Inspections should be scheduled and integrated with outlease compliance inspection itineraries in the interest of economy. This requirement for inspections extends to properties conveyed by the Secretary of the Army or Air Force under special legislation, where the deed of conveyance imposes conditions on future use of the land. These inspections need not be made annually but frequently enough so that the DE is assured that the conditions are being observed, and at least every three years. Compliance with conditions in deeds for property conveyed for airport purposes under 49 U.S.C. 1723 and 50 App. U.S.C. 1622g is the responsibility of the Secretary of Transportation; for property conveyed for purposes of health and education, the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare or its successor agencies (40 U.S.C. 484(k)(4)). The Commander, U.S. Army Materiel Development and Readiness Command, is responsible for compliance with the National Security Clause, and similar conditions, in deeds conveying industrial properties.