##### § 30.6 Existing lists of eligibles and public notice. #####

A sponsor adopting a selection method under § 30.5(b) (1) or (2) and a sponsor adopting a selection method under § 30.5(b)(4) who determines that there are fewer minorities and/or women (minority and nonminority) on its existing lists of eligibles than would reasonably be expected in view of the analysis described in § 30.4(e) shall discard all existing eligibility lists upon adoption of the selection methods required by this part. New eligibility pools shall be established and lists of eligibility pools shall be posted at the sponsor's place of business. Sponsors shall establish a reasonable period of not less than 2 weeks for accepting applications for admission to an apprenticeship program. There shall be at least 30 days of public notice in advance of the earliest date for application for admission to the apprenticeship program (see § 30.4(c) on affirmative action with respect to dissemination of information). Applicants who have been placed in a pool of eligibles shall be retained on lists of eligibles subject to selection for a period of 2 years. Applicants may be removed from the list at an earlier date by their request or following their failure to respond to an apprentice job opportunity given by certified mail, return receipt requested. Applicants who have been accepted in the program shall be afforded a reasonable period of time in light of the customs and practices of the industry for reporting for work. All applicants shall be treated equally in determining such period of time. It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to keep the sponsor informed of his or her current mailing address. Upon request, a sponsor may restore to the list of eligibles applicants who have been removed from the list or who have failed to respond to an apprenticeship job opportunity.

(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1205-0224)[43 FR 20760, May 12, 1978, as amended at 49 FR 18295, Apr. 30, 1984]