##### § 30.5 Selection of apprentices. #####

(a) *Obligations of sponsors.* In addition to the development of a written affirmative action plan to ensure that minorities and women have an equal opportunity for selection as apprentices and otherwise ensure the prompt achievement of full and equal opportunity in apprenticeship, each sponsor shall further provide in its affirmative action program that the selection of apprentices shall be made under one of the methods specified in the following subparagraphs (1) through (4) of paragraph (b) of this section.

(b) *Selection methods.* The sponsor shall adopt one of the following methods for selecting apprentices:

(1) *Selection on basis of rank from pool of eligible applicants* - (i) *Selection.* A sponsor may select apprentices from a pool of eligible applicants created in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section on the basis of the rank order of scores of applicants on one or more qualification standards where there is a significant statistical relationship between rank order of scores and performance in the apprenticeship program. In demonstrating such relationship, the sponsor shall follow the procedures set forth in Guidelines on Employee Selection Procedures published at 41 CFR part 60-3.

(ii) *Requirements.* The sponsor adopting this method of selecting apprentices shall meet the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1)(iii) through (vii) of this section.

(iii) *Creation of pool of eligibles.* A pool of eligibles shall be created from applicants who meet the qualifications of minimum legal working age; or from applicants who meet qualification standards in addition to minimum legal working age: *Provided,* That any additional qualification standards conform with the following requirements:

(A) *Qualification standards.* The qualification standards, and the procedures for determining such qualification standards, shall be stated in detail and shall provide criteria for the specific factors and attributes to be considered in evaluating applicants for admission to the pool. The score required under each qualification standard for admission to the pool shall also be specified. All qualification standards, and the score required on any standard for admission to the pool, shall be directly related to job performance, as shown by a significant statistical relationship between the score required for admission to the pool, and performance in the apprenticeship program. In demonstrating such relationship, the sponsor shall follow the procedures set forth in 41 CFR part 60-3. Qualifications shall be considered as separately required so that the failure of an applicant to attain the specified score under a single qualification standard shall disqualify the applicant from admission to the pool.

(B) *Aptitude tests.* Any qualification standard for admission to the pool consisting of aptitude test scores shall be directly related to job performance, as shown by significant statistical relationships between the score on the aptitude tests required for admission to the pool, and performance in the apprenticeship program. In determining such relationship, the sponsor shall follow the procedures set forth in 41 CFR part 60-3. The requirements of this paragraph (b)(1)(iii)(B) shall also be applicable to aptitude tests utilized by a program sponsor which are administered by a state employment agency, or any other person, agency, or organization engaged in the selection or evaluation of personnel. A national test developed and administered by a national joint apprenticeship committee will not by approved by the Department unless such test meets the requirements of this subsection.

(C) *Educational attainments.* All educational attainments or achievements as qualifications for admission to the pool shall be directly related to job performance as shown by a significant statistical relationship between the score required for admission to the pool and performance in the apprenticeship program. In demonstrating such relationship, the sponsor shall meet the requirements of 41 CFR part 60-3. School records or a passing grade on the general education development tests recognized by the State or local public instruction authority shall be evidence of educational achievement. Education requirements shall be applied uniformly to all applicants.

(iv) *Oral interviews.* Oral interviews shall not be used as a qualification standard for admission into an eligibility pool. However, once an applicant is placed in the eligibility pool, and prior to selection for apprenticeship from the pool, he or she may be required to submit to an oral interview. Oral interviews shall be limited to such objective questions as may be required to determine the fitness of applicants to enter the apprenticeship program, but shall not include questions relating to qualifications previously determined in gaining entrance to the eligibility pool. When an oral interview is used, each interviewer shall record the questions and the general nature of the applicant's answers, and shall prepare a summary of any conclusions. Each applicant rejected from the pool of eligibles on the basis of an oral interview shall be given a written statement of such rejection, the reasons therefor, and the appeal rights available to the applicant.

(v) *Notification of applicants.* All applicants who meet the requirements for admission shall be notified and placed in the eligibility pool. The program sponsor shall give each rejected applicant who is not selected for the pool or the program notice of his or her rejection, including the reasons for the rejection, the requirements for admission to the pool of eligibles, and the appeal rights available to the applicant.

(vi) *Goals and timetables.* The sponsor shall establish where required by § 30.4(d), percentage goals and timetables for the admission of minorities and women (minority and nonminority) into the pool of eligibles, in accordance with the provisions of § 30.4 (d), (e), and (f).

(vii) *Compliance.* A sponsor shall be deemed to be in compliance with its commitments under paragraph (b)(1)(vi) of this section if it meets its goals or timetables or if it makes a good faith effort to meet these goals and timetables. In the event of the failure of the sponsor to meet its goals and timetables, it shall be given an opportunity to demonstrate that it has made every *good faith effort* to meet its commitments (see § 30.4(f)). All the actions of the sponsor shall be reviewed and evaluated in determining whether such good faith efforts have been made.

(2) *Random selection from pool of eligible applicants* - (i) *Selection.* A sponsor may select apprentices from a pool of eligible applicants on a random basis. The method of random selection is subject to approval by the Department. Supervision of the random selection process shall be by an impartial person or persons selected by the sponsor, but not associated with the administration of the apprenticeship program. The time and place of the selection, and the number of apprentices to be selected, shall be announced. The place of the selection shall be open to all applicants and the public. The names of apprentices drawn by this method shall be posted immediately following the selection at the program sponsor's place of business.

(ii) *Requirements.* The sponsor adopting this method of selecting apprentices shall meet the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1)(iii) through (v) of this section relating to the creation of pool of eligibles, oral interviews, and notification of applicants.

(iii) *Goals and timetables.* The sponsor shall establish, where required by § 30.4(d), percentage goals and time- tables for admission of minorities and women (minority and nonminority) into the pool of eligibles in accordance with the provisions of § 30.4 (d), (e), and (f).

(iv) *Compliance.* Determinations as to the sponsor's compliance with its obligations under these regulations shall be in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (b)(1)(vii) of this section.

(3) *Selection from pool of current employees* - (i) *Selection.* A sponsor may select apprentices from an eligibility pool of the workers already employed by the program sponsor in a manner prescribed by a collective bargaining agreement where such exists, or by the sponsor's established promotion policy. The sponsor adopting this method of selecting apprentices shall establish goals and timetables for the selection of minority and female apprentices, unless the sponsor concludes, in accordance with the provisions of § 30.4 (d), (e), and (f) that it does not have deficiencies in terms of underutilization of minorities and/or women (minority and nonminority) in the apprenticeship of journeyperson crafts represented by the program.

(ii) *Compliance.* Determinations as to the sponsor's compliance with its obligations under these regulations shall be in accordance with provisions of paragraph (b)(1)(vii) of this section.

(4) *Alternative selection methods* - (i) *Selection.* A sponsor may select apprentices by means of any other method including its present selection method: *Provided,* That the sponsor meets the following requirements:

(A) *Selection method and goals and timetables.* Within 90 days of the effective date of this amendment, the sponsor shall complete development of the revised selection method it proposes to use along with the rest of its written affirmative action program including, where required by § 30.4(d), its percentage goals and timetables for the selection of minority and/or female (minority and nonminority) applicants for apprenticeship and its written analysis, upon which such goals and timetables, or lack thereof, are based. The establishment of goals and timetables shall be in accordance with the provisions of § 30.4 (d), (e), and (f). The sponsor may not implement any such selection method until the Department has approved the selection method as meeting the requirements of item (B) of this subdivision and has approved the remainder of its affirmative action program including its goals and timetables. If the Department fails to act upon the selection method and the affirmative action program within 30 days of its submission, the sponsor then may implement the selection method.

(B) *Qualification standards.* Apprentices shall be selected on the basis of objective and specific qualification standards. Examples of such standards are fair aptitude tests, school diplomas or equivalent, occupationally essential health requirements, fair interviews, school grades, and previous work experience. Where interviews are used, adequate records shall be kept including a brief summary of each interview and the conclusions on each of the specific factors, e.g., motivation, ambition, and willingness to accept direction which are part of the total judgement. In applying any such standards, the sponsor shall meet the requirements of 41 CFR part 60-3.

(ii) *Compliance.* Determinations as to the sponsor's compliance with its obligations under these regulations shall be in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (b)(1)(vii) of this section. Where a sponsor, despite its good faith efforts, fails to meet its goals and timetables within a reasonable period of time, the sponsor may be required to make appropriate changes in its affirmative action program to the extent necessary to obtain maximum effectiveness toward the attainment of its goals. The sponsor may also be required to develop and adopt an alternative selection method, including a method prescribed by the Department, where it is determined that the failure of the sponsor to meet its goals is attributable in substantial part to the selection method. Where the sponsor's failure to meet its goals is attributable in substantial part to its use of a qualification standard which has adversely affected the opportunities of minorities and/or women (minority and nonminority) for apprenticeship, the sponsor may be required to demonstrate that such qualification standard is directly related to job performance, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (b)(1)(iii)(A) of this section.

(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1205-0224)[43 FR 20760, May 12, 1978, as amended at 49 FR 18295, Apr. 30, 1984]