##### ยง 30.4 Affirmative action plans. #####

(a) *Adoption of affirmative action plans.* A sponsor's commitment to equal opportunity in recruitment, selection, employment, and training of apprentices shall include the adoption of a written affirmative action plan.

(b) *Definition of affirmative action.* Affirmative action is not mere passive nondiscrimination. It includes procedures, methods, and programs for the identification, positive recruitment, training, and motivation of present and potential minority and female (minority and nonminority) apprentices including the establishment of goals and timetables. It is action which will equalize opportunity in apprenticeship so as to allow full utilization of the work potential of minorities and women. The overall result to be sought is equal opportunity in apprenticeship for all individuals participating in or seeking entrance to the Nation's labor force.

(c) *Outreach and positive recruitment.* An acceptable affirmative action plan must also include adequate provision for outreach and positive recruitment that would reasonably be expected to increase minority and female participation in apprenticeship by expanding the opportunity of minorities and women to become eligible for apprenticeship selection. In order to achieve these objectives, sponsors shall undertake activities such as those listed below. It is not contemplated that each sponsor necessarily will include all the listed activities in its affirmative action program. The scope of the affirmative action program will depend on all the circumstances including the size and type of the program and its resources. However, the sponsor will be required to undertake a significant number of appropriate activities in order to enable it to meet its obligations under this part. The affirmative action plan shall set forth the specific steps the sponsor intends to take in the areas listed below. Whenever special circumstances warrant, the Department may provide such financial or other assistance as it deems necessary to implement the requirements of this paragraph.

(1) Dissemination of information concerning the nature of the apprenticeship, requirements for admission to apprenticeship, availability of apprenticeship opportunities, sources of apprenticeship applications, and the equal opportunity policy of the sponsor. For programs accepting applications only at specified intervals, such information shall be disseminated at least 30 days in advance of the earliest date for application at each interval. For programs customarily receiving applications throughout the year, such information shall be regularly disseminated but not less than semi- annually. Such information shall be given to the Department, local schools, employment service offices, women's centers, outreach programs and community organizations which can effectively reach minorities and women, and shall be published in newspapers which are circulated in the minority community and among women, as well as in the general areas in which the program sponsor operates.

(2) Participation in annual workshops conducted by employment service agencies for the purpose of familarizing school, employment service and other appropriate personnel with the apprenticeship system and current opportunities therein.

(3) Cooperation with local school boards and vocational education systems to develop programs for preparing students to meet the standards and criteria required to qualify for entry into apprenticeship programs.

(4) Internal communication of the sponsor's equal opportunity policy in such a manner as to foster understanding, acceptance, and support among the sponsor's various officers, supervisors, employees, and members and to encourage such persons to take the necessary action to aid the sponsor in meeting its obligations under this part.

(5) Engaging in programs such as outreach for the positive recruitment and preparation of potential applicants for apprenticeships; where appropriate and feasible, such programs shall provide for pretesting experience and training. If no such programs are in existence the sponsor shall seek to initiate these programs, or, when available, to obtain financial assistance from the Department. In initiating and conducting these programs, the sponsor may be required to work with other sponsors and appropriate community organizations. The sponsor shall also initiate programs to prepare women and encourage women to enter traditionally male programs.

(6) To encourage the establishment and utilization of programs of preapprenticeship, preparatory trade training, or others designed to afford related work experience or to prepare candidates for apprenticeship, a sponsor shall make appropriate provision in its affirmative action plan to assure that those who complete such programs are afforded full and equal opportunity for admission into the apprenticeship program.

(7) Utilization of journeypersons to assist in the implementation of the sponsor's affirmative action program.

(8) Granting advance standing or credit on the basis of previously acquired experience, training, skills, or aptitude for all applicants equally.

(9) Admitting to apprenticeship, persons whose age exceeds the maximum age for admission to the program, where such action assists the sponsor in achieving its affirmative action obligations.

(10) Other appropriate action to ensure that the recruitment, selection, employment, and training of apprentices during apprenticeship shall be without discrimination because of race, color, religion, national origin, or sex (e.g., general publication of apprenticeship opportunities and advantages in advertisements, industry reports, articles, etc.; use of present minority and female apprentices and journeypersons as recruiters; career counseling; periodic auditing of affirmative action programs and activities; and development of reasonable procedures between the sponsor and employers of apprentices to ensure that employment opportunity is being granted, including reporting systems, on-site reviews, briefing sessions, etc.). The affirmative action program shall set forth the specific steps the sponsor intends to take, in the above areas, under this paragraph (c). Whenever special circumstances warrant, the Department may provide such financial or other assistance as it deems necessary to implement the above requirements.

(d) *Goals and timetables.* (1) A sponsor adopting a selection method under ยง 30.5(b) (1) or (2) which determines on the basis of the analysis described in paragraph (e) of this section that it has deficiencies in terms of underutilization of minorities and/or women (minority and nonminority) in the craft or crafts represented by the program shall include in its affirmative action plan percentage goals and timetables for the admission of minority and/or female (minority and nonminority) applicants into the eligibility pool.

(2) A sponsor adopting a selection method under ยง 30.5(b) (3) or (4) which determines on the basis of the analysis described in paragraph (e) of this section that it has deficiencies in terms of the underutilization of minorities and/or women in the craft or crafts represented by the program shall include in its affirmative action plan percentage goals and timetables for the selection of minority and female (minority and nonminority) applicants for the apprenticeship program.

(3) *Underutilization* as used in this paragraph refers to the situation where there are fewer minorities and/or women (minority and nonminority) in the particular craft or crafts represented by the program than would reasonably be expected in view of an analysis of the specific factors in paragraphs (e) (1) through (5) of this section. Where, on the basis of the analysis, the sponsor determines that it has no deficiencies, no goals and timetables need be established. However, where no goals and timetables are established, the affirmative action plan shall include a detailed explanation why no goals and timetables have been established.

(4) Where the sponsor fails to submit goals and timetables as part of its affirmative action plan or submits goals and timetables which are unacceptable, and the Department determines that the sponsor has deficiencies in terms of underutilization of minorities or women (minority and nonminority) within the meaning of this section, the Department shall establish goals and timetables applicable to the sponsor for the admission of minority and female (minority and nonminority) applicants into the eligibility pool or selection of apprentices, as appropriate. The sponsor shall make good faith efforts to attain these goals and timetables in accordance with the requirements of this section.

(e) *Analysis to determine if deficiencies exist.* The sponsor's determination as to whether goals and timetables shall be established, shall be based on an analysis of at least the following factors, which analysis shall be set forth in writing as part of the affirmative action plan.

(1) The size of the working age minority and female (minority and nonminority) population in the program sponsor's labor market area;

(2) The size of the minority and female (minority and nonminority) labor force in the program sponsor's labor market area;

(3) The percentage of minority and female (minority and nonminority) participation as apprentices in the particular craft as compared with the percentage of minorities and women (minority and nonminority) in the labor force in the program sponsor's labor market area;

(4) The percentage of minority and female (minority and nonminority) participation as journeypersons employed by the employer or employers participating in the program as compared with the percentage of minorities and women (minority and nonminority) in the sponsor's labor market area and the extent to which the sponsor should be expected to correct any deficiencies through the achievement of goals and timetables for the selection of apprentices; and

(5) The general availability of minorities and women (minority and nonminority) with present or potential capacity for apprenticeship in the program sponsor's labor market area.

(f) *Establishment and attainment of goals and timetables.* The goals and timetables shall be established on the basis of the sponsor's analyses of its underutilization of minorities and women and its entire affirmative action program. A single goal for minorities and a separate single goal for women is acceptable unless a particular group is employed in a substantially disparate manner in which case separate goals shall be established for such group. Such separate goals would be required, for example, if a specific minority group of women were underutilized even though the sponsor had achieved its standards for women generally. In establishing the goals, the sponsor should consider the results which could be reasonably expected from its good faith efforts to make its overall affirmative action program work. Compliance with these requirements shall be determined by whether the sponsor has met its goals within its timetables, or failing that, whether it has made good faith efforts to meet its goals and timetables. Its *good faith efforts* shall be judged by whether it is following its affirmative action program and attempting to make it work, including evaluation and changes in its program where necessary to obtain the maximum effectiveness toward the attainment of its goals. However, in order to deal fairly with program sponsors, and with women who are entitled to protection under the goals and timetables requirements, during the first 12 months after the effective date of these regulations, the program sponsor would generally be expected to set a goal for women for the entering year class at a rate which is not less than 50 percent of the proportion women are of the workforce in the program sponsor's labor market area and set a percentage goal for women in each class beyond the entering class which is not less than the participation rate of women currently in the preceding class. At the end of the first 12 months after the effective date of these regulations, sponsors are expected to make appropriate adjustments in goal levels. See 29 CFR 30.8(b).

(g) *Data and information.* The Secretary of Labor, or a person or agency designated by the Secretary, shall make available to program sponsors data and information on minority and female (minority and nonminority) labor force characteristics for each Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area and for other special areas as appropriate.

(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1205-0224)[43 FR 20760, May 12, 1978, as amended at 49 FR 18295, Apr. 30, 1984]