##### § 644.360 Reports submitted for screening. #####

Excess leaseholds and buildings and improvements to be disposed of separately from the land which, pursuant to § 644.350, must be reported to GSA for screening purposes only, will be reported immediately when the property is determined to be excess to the particular military department having jurisdiction. The report will contain the statement: “This property is reported for screening with civilian agencies by GSA prior to its disposal by the Corps of Engineers. The property is being screened within DOD and when the screening has been completed, appropriate certification will be submitted to GSA.” Screening against defense requirements, pursuant to §§ 644.333 through 644.339, will then be completed and GSA notified of the result. If such screening results in the development of a requirement by one of the other military services, the Report of Excess will be withdrawn and the transfer of the property to the requesting military service effected. This specialized procedure for this type of property is adopted to allow screening for defense requirements by the Corps of Engineers to be accomplished simultaneously with the screening of civilian agencies by GSA. Where circumstances require that this type of property be screened within a limited period of time, the period should be specified and an explanation set forth on the face of the Report of Excess, as, for example: “Buildings are in the way of planned new construction and must be removed or demolished not later than (date). Accordingly, advice must be received on or before (date) as to whether a requirement exists for the property, or whether it is to be transferred or assigned to another Federal agency for removal within the time specified.” If such advice is not received by the time specified, the property should be disposed of without further delay and GSA notified of the action.