##### ยง 644.357 Outgrant instruments, appraisals and muniments of title. #####

There shall be transmitted with the SF 118 copies of outgrants involving the property reported, all conveyances, encumbrances and other instruments affecting the use and operation of the property, including deeds, mortgages, and agreements covering and licenses to use any patents, processes, techniques, or inventions. Where there is more than one like instrument as, for example, agricultural leases, it may be preferable to list them, locate them on the land use map, and furnish a sample copy. FPMR contemplates that muniments of title will be transmitted with the report of excess. The title report (ยง 644.356 of this part) will state that HQDA (DAEN-REP) WASH DC 20314 is the custodian of title papers and has been requested by the DE to transmit applicable title papers direct to the GSA Regional Office. Accordingly, as soon as practicable after receipt of an information copy of the declaration of excess by the using service, and a disposal directive, the DE will assign a disposal report number and advise DAEN-REP to transmit the pertinent title papers directly to the appropriate GSA Regional Office, citing the disposal report number as a reference. Simultaneous action by DAEN-REP and the DE to assemble necessary reporting data is important to avoid delay of acceptance by GSA of the Report of Excess. If experience should demonstrate that such simultaneous preparation and transmittal of data is not practical in saving time and effort, the DE will arrange in advance for transmittal of the necessary title data from DAEN-REP for incorporation in the Report of Excess before transmittal by the DE to the GSA Regional Office.