##### ยง 1650.17 Changes and cancellation of a withdrawal request. #####

(a) *Before processing.* A pending withdrawal request can be cancelled if the cancellation is processed before the TSP processes the withdrawal request. However, the TSP processes withdrawal requests each business day and those that are entered into the record keeping system by 12:00 noon eastern time will ordinarily be processed that night; those entered after 12:00 noon eastern time will be processed the next business day. Consequently, a cancellation request must be received and entered into the system before the cut-off for the day the withdrawal request is submitted for processing in order to be effective to cancel the withdrawal.

(b) *After processing.* A withdrawal election cannot be changed or cancelled after the withdrawal request has been processed. Consequently, funds disbursed cannot be returned to the TSP record keeper.

(c) *Change in monthly payments.* If a participant is receiving a series of monthly payments, the participant can change at any time: His or her withdrawal election to request a final single payment, the address to which the payments are mailed, whether or not a payment will be transferred (if permitted) and the portion to be transferred, the method by which direct payments to the participant are being sent (EFT or check), the identity of the financial institution to which payments are transferred or sent by EFT, or the identity of the EFT account. Once a year, during a period determined by the Executive Director, the participant may also elect to change the payment amount or to change from a monthly payment based on life expectancy to a fixed payment amount.

[68 FR 35503, June 13, 2003, as amended at 70 FR 32215, June 1, 2005]