##### § 16.4 Sentencing procedures. #####

(a) *General.* 32 CFR part 9 permits the military commission substantial discretion regarding the conduct of sentencing proceedings. Sentencing proceedings should normally proceed expeditiously. In the discretion of the Presiding Officer, as limited by the Appointing Authority, reasonable delay between the announcement of findings and the commencement of sentencing proceedings may be authorized to facilitate the conduct of proceedings in accordance with of 32 CFR 9.6(b).

(b) *Information relevant to sentencing.* 32 CFR 9.6(e)(10) permits the Prosecution and Defense to present information to aid the military commission in determining an appropriate sentence. Such information may include a recommendation of an appropriate sentence, information regarding sentence ranges for analogous offenses (*e.g.,* the sentencing range under the Federal Sentencing Guidelines that could be applicable to the Accused for the most analogous federal offenses), and other relevant information. Regardless of any presentation by the Prosecution or Defense, the military commission shall consider any evidence admitted for consideration prior to findings regarding guilt. The Presiding Officer may limit or require the presentation of certain information consistent with 32 CFR part 9 and Military Order of November 13, 2001, “Detention, Treatment, and Trial of Certain Non-Citizens in the War Against Terrorism'.

(c) *Cases involving plea agreements.* In accordance with 32 CFR 9.6(a)(4), after determining the voluntary and informed nature of a plea agreement approved by the Appointing Authority, the military commission is bound to adjudge findings and a sentence pursuant to that plea agreement. Accordingly, the Presiding Officer may exercise the authority granted in of 32 CFR 9.6(e) to curtail or preclude the presentation of information and argument relative to the military commission's determination of an appropriate sentence.

(d) *Special duties.* In cases involving plea agreements or recommendations for certain conditions of imprisonment or prospective sentence modification, the Prosecution and Defense shall provide whatever post-trial information or recommendation as is relevant to any subsequent decision regarding such condition or suspension, remission, commutation, or other modification recommendation associated with the sentence.