##### ยง 16.3 Available sentences. #####

(a) *General.* 32 CFR part 9 permits a military commission wide latitude in sentencing. Any lawful punishment or condition of punishment is authorized, including death, so long as the prerequisites detailed in 32 CFR part 9 are met. Detention associated with an individual's status as an enemy combatant shall not be considered to fulfill any term of imprisonment imposed by a military commission. The sentence determination should be made while bearing in mind that there are several principal reasons for a sentence given to those who violate the law. Such reasons include: punishment of the wrongdoer; protection of society from the wrongdoer; deterrence of the wrongdoer and those who know of his crimes and sentence from committing the same or similar offenses; and rehabilitation of the wrongdoer. In determining an appropriate sentence, the weight to be accorded any or all of these reasons rests solely within the discretion of commission members. All sentences should, however, be grounded in a recognition that military commissions are a function of the President's war-fighting role as Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of the United States and of the broad deterrent impact associated with a sentence's effect on adherence to the laws and customs of war in general.

(b) *Conditions of imprisonment.* Decisions regarding the location designated for any imprisonment, the conditions under which a sentence to imprisonment is served, or the privileges accorded one during any period of imprisonment should generally not be made by the commission. Those decisions and actions, however, may be appropriate subjects for recommendation to the person making a final decision on the sentence in accordance with of 32 CFR 9.6(h).

(c) *Prospective recommendations for sentence modification.* A sentence imposed by military commission may be accompanied by a recommendation to suspend, remit, commute or otherwise modify the adjudged sentence in concert with one or more conditions upon which the suspension, remission, commutation, or other modification is contingent (usually relating to the performance, behavior or conduct of the Accused). Unless otherwise directed, a decision or action in accordance with such a recommendation will be effected by direction or delegation to the Appointing Authority by the official making a final decision on the sentence in accordance with of 32 CFR 9.6(h).