##### § 538.5 Conversion of invalidated military payment certificates. #####

(a) *When converted.* Time limit on filing claims for the conversion of invalidated Series 461, 471, 472, 481, 521, 541, 591, 611, 641, 651, 661, 681, and 692 expires on 30 September 1980.

(b) *When found in effects of deceased personnel.* Invalidated series of military payment certificates in amounts not in excess of $500, found in the effects of deceased personnel or personnel in a missing status, will be converted into a Treasury check. Such military payment certificates will be converted only if date of death or entry into missing status was prior to the date the series of military payment certificates was withdrawn from circulation. The Treasury check will be disposed of in accordance with regulations governing disposition of effects of deceased or missing personnel. Amounts in excess of $500 will be forwarded by the summary court officer to the U.S. Army Finance and Accounting Center for decision regarding exchange of such certificates.

(c) *Disposition when received with claim.* Under no circumstances will invalidated series of military payment certificates received with claims for conversion be taken up in the accounts of the finance and accounting officer. Such certificates will be held in safekeeping until decision is made. If the claim is disapproved, the certificates will be returned to the claimant. In the event these certificates are again received by the finance and accounting officer as undeliverable and reasonable efforts fail to locate the claimant, the certificates will be held for a period of 6 months after which time the proceeds of the certificates will be deposited in the Treasury to the General Fund (Miscellaneous) Receipt Account 211060, “Forfeitures of unclaimed money and property.”