cfr/title-33-Navigation-Navigable-Waters/chapter-I-Coast-Guard-Department-Homeland-Security/subchapter-P-Ports-Waterways-Safety/part-165-Regulated-Navigation-Areas-Limited-Access-Areas/subpart-F-Specific-Regulated-Navigation-Areas-Limited-Access-Areas/subjectgroup-ECFR3ab974a0074ea6c-Seventh-Coast-Guard-District/section-165.731.md, before:

##### § 165.731 Safety/Security Zone: Cumberland Sound, Georgia and St. Marys River Entrance Channel. #####

Link to an amendment published at 82 FR 13967, Mar. 16, 2017.

(a) *Location.* A permanent safety/security zone is established within the following coordinates, the area enclosed by a line starting at 30°44′55″ N, 081°29′39″ W; thence to 30°44′55″ N, 081°29′18″ W; thence to 30°46′35″ N, 081°29′18″ W; thence to 30°47′02″ N, 081°29′34″ W; thence to 30°47′21″ N, 081°29′39″ W; thence to 30°48′00″ N, 081°29′42″ W; thence to 30°49′07″ N, 081°29′56″ W; thence to 30°49′55″ N, 081°30′35″ W; thence to 30°50′15″ N, 081°31′08″ W; thence to 30°50′14″ N, 081°31′30″ W; thence to 30°49′58″ N, 081°31′45″ W; thence to 30°49′58″ N, 081°32′03″ W; thence to 30°50′12″ N, 081°32′17″ W; thence following the land based perimeter boundary to the point of origin.

(b) A temporary safety/security zone, when activated by the Captain of the Port, Jacksonville, Florida, encompasses all waters and land from bank to bank within Cumberland Sound and the St. Marys Entrance Channel: the northern extent of this zone starts at the southern tip of Crab Island; lighted buoy number “1” at the mouth of the Amelia River demarks the southern boundary; day marker number “2” at the mouth of the St. Marys River indicates the western boundary; and the eastern boundary extends out to three (3) nautical miles in the Atlantic Ocean, with the zone also encompassing the waters within 1000 yards of the entrance channel east of the jetties.

(c) *Regulations.* (1) The Captain of the Port, Jacksonville, Florida will activate the temporary safety/security zone described in paragraph (b) of this section by issuing a local broadcast notice to mariners.

(2) All persons and vessels in the vicinity of the safety/security zone shall immediately obey any direction or order of the Captain of the Port, Jacksonville, Florida.

(3) The general regulations governing safety and security zones contained in 33 CFR 165.23 and .33 apply. No person or vessel may enter or remain within the designated zones without the permission of the Captain of the Port, Jacksonville, Florida.

(4) This regulation does not apply to persons or vessels operating under the authority of the United States Navy nor to authorized law enforcement agencies.

[COTP Jacksonville Reg. 90-94, 55 FR 42374, Oct. 19, 1990]

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2017-04-17 issue
Title: 20: Employees' Benefits - Sections changed: 4
Title: 33: Navigation and Navigable Waters - Sections changed: 2
Title: 36: Parks, Forests, and Public Property - Sections changed: 1
Title: 40: Protection of Environment - Sections changed: 3

cfr/title-33-Navigation-Navigable-Waters/chapter-I-Coast-Guard-Department-Homeland-Security/subchapter-P-Ports-Waterways-Safety/part-165-Regulated-Navigation-Areas-Limited-Access-Areas/subpart-F-Specific-Regulated-Navigation-Areas-Limited-Access-Areas/subjectgroup-ECFR3ab974a0074ea6c-Seventh-Coast-Guard-District/section-165.731.md, after:

##### § 165.731 Security Zone: Cumberland Sound, Georgia. #####

(a) *Definition.* The term “designated representative” means Coast Guard Patrol Commanders, including Coast Guard coxswains, petty officers, and other officers operating Coast Guard vessels, and Federal, state, and local officers designated by or assisting the Captain of the Port (COTP) Jacksonville, Florida, in the enforcement of the regulated areas.

(b) *Location.* A permanent security zone is established within the following coordinates, the area enclosed by a line starting at 30°44′55″ N., 081°29′39″ W.; thence to 30°44′55″ N., 081°29′18″ W.; thence to 30°46′35″ N., 081°29′18″ W.; thence to 30°47′02″ N., 081°29′34″ W.; thence to 30°47′21″ N., 081°29′39″ W.; thence to 30°48′00″ N., 081°29′42″ W.; thence to 30°49′07″ N., 081°29′56″ W.; thence to 30°49′55″ N., 081°30′35″ W.; thence to 30°50′15″ N., 081°31′08″ W.; thence to 30°50′14″ N., 081°31′30″ W.; thence to 30°49′58″ N., 081°31′45″ W.; thence to 30°49′58″ N., 081°32′03″ W.; thence to 30°50′12″ N., 081°32′17″ W.; thence following the land based perimeter boundary to the point of origin.

(c) *Regulations.* (1) No person or vessel may enter or remain within the security zone without the permission of the COTP Jacksonville or designated representative.

(2) All persons and vessels authorized to enter the security zone shall immediately obey any direction or order of the COTP Jacksonville or designated representative.

(3) This regulation does not apply to persons or vessels operating under the authority of the United States Navy or to authorized law enforcement agencies.

[USCG-2016-0032, 82 FR 13967, Mar. 16, 2017]
