##### § 165.761 Security Zones; Port of Palm Beach, Port Everglades, Port of Miami, and Port of Key West, Florida. #####

(a) *Location.* The following areas are security zones:

(1) *Fixed and moving security zones around vessels in the Ports of Palm Beach, Port Everglades, Miami, and Key West, Florida.* Moving security zones are established 100 yards around all passenger vessels, vessels carrying cargoes of particular hazard, or vessels carrying liquefied hazardous gas (LHG) as defined in 33 CFR parts 120, 126 and 127 respectively, during transits entering or departing the Ports of Palm Beach, Port Everglades, Miami or Key West, Florida. These moving security zones are activated when the subject vessel passes: “LW” buoy, at approximate position 26°46.3′ N, 080°00.6′ W, when entering the Port of Palm Beach, passes “PE” buoy, at approximate position 26°05.5′ N, 080°04.8′ W, when entering Port Everglades; the “M” buoy, at approximate position 25°46.1′ N, 080°05.0′ W, when entering the Port of Miami; and “KW” buoy, at approximate position 24°27.7′ N, 081°48.1′ W, when entering the Port of Key West. Fixed security zones are established 100 yards around all passenger vessels, vessels carrying cargoes of particular hazard or liquefied hazardous gas (LHG) as defined in 33 CFR parts 120, 126 and 127 respectively, while they are docked in the Ports of Palm Beach, Port Everglades, Miami or Key West, Florida.

(2) *Fixed security zone in the Port of Miami, Florida.* A fixed security zone encompasses all waters between Watson Park and Star Island on the MacArthur Causeway south to the Port of Miami. The western boundary is formed by an imaginary line from points 25°46.79′ N, 080°10.90′ W, to 25°46.77′ N, 080°10.92′ W to 25°46.88′ N, 080°10.84′ W, and ending on Watson Park at 25°47.00′ N, 080°10.67′ W. The eastern boundary is formed by an imaginary line from the traffic light located at Bridge road, in approximate position 25°46.33′ N, 080°09.12′ W, which leads to Star Island, and MacArthur Causeway directly extending across the Main Channel to the Port of Miami, at 25°46.26′ N, 080°09.18′ W. The fixed security zone is activated when two or more passenger vessels, vessels carrying cargoes of particular hazard, or vessels carrying liquefied hazardous gas (LHG) as defined in 33 CFR parts 120, 126 and 127 respectively, enter or moor within this zone.

(i) Vessels may be allowed to transit the Main Channel when only one passenger vessel or vessel carrying cargoes of particular hazard are berthed, by staying on the north side of the law enforcement boats and cruise ship tenders which will mark a transit lane in channel.

(ii) When passenger vessels are not berthed on the Main Channel, navigation will be unrestricted. Law enforcement vessels can be contacted on VHF Marine Band Radio, Channel 16 (156.8 MHz).

(3) *Fixed security zones in the Port Everglades.* A fixed security zone encompasses all waters west of an imaginary line starting at the northern most point 26°05.98′ N, 080°07.15′ W, near the west side of the 17th Street Causeway Bridge, to the southern most point 26°05.41′ N, 080°06.96′ W, on the northern tip of pier 22. An additional fixed security zone encompasses the Intracoastal Waterway between a line connecting point 26°05.41′ N, 080°06.97′ W, on the northern tip of berth 22 and a point directly east across the Intracoastal Waterway to 26°05.41′ N, 080°06.74′ W; and a line drawn from the corner of Port Everglades berth 29 at point 26°04.72′ N, 080°06.92′ W, easterly across the Intracoastal Waterway to John U. Lloyd Beach, State Recreational Area at point 26°04.72′ N, 080°06.81′ W.

(i) Vessels may be allowed to transit the Intracoastal Waterway when passenger vessels or vessels carrying cargoes of particular hazard are berthed, by staying east of the law enforcement vessels and cruise ship tenders, which will mark a transit lane in the Intracoastal Waterway.

(ii) Periodically, vessels may be required to temporarily hold their positions while large commercial traffic operates in this area. Vessels in this security zone must follow the orders of the COTP or his designated representative, who may be embarked in law enforcement or other vessels on scene. When passenger vessels are not berthed on the Intracoastal Waterway, navigation will be unrestricted. Law enforcement vessels can be contacted on VHF Marine Band Radio, Channel 16 (156.8 MHz).

(b) *Regulations.* (1) Prior to commencing the movement, the person directing the movement of a passenger vessel, a vessel carrying cargoes of particular hazard or a vessel carrying liquefied hazardous gas (LHG) as defined in Title 33, Code of Federal Regulations parts 120, 126 and 127 respectively, is encouraged to make a security broadcast on VHF Marine Band Radio, Channel 13 (156.65 MHz) to advise mariners of the moving security zone activation and intended transit.

(2) In accordance with the general regulations § 165.33 of this part, entry into these zones is prohibited except as authorized by the Captain of the Port Miami or his designated representative. Other vessels such as pilot boats, cruise ship tenders, tug boats and contracted security vessels may assist the Coast Guard Captain of the Port under the direction of his designated representative by monitoring these zones strictly to advise mariners of the restrictions. The Captain of the Port will notify the public via Marine Safety Radio Broadcast on VHF Marine Band Radio, Channel 16 (156.8 MHz) when the security zones are being enforced.

(3) Persons desiring to enter or transit the area of the security zone may contact the Captain of the Port at (305) 535-8701 or on VHF Marine Band Radio, Channel 16 (156.8 MHz) to seek permission to transit the area. If permission is granted, all persons and vessels must comply with the instructions of the Captain of the Port or his or her designated representative.

(4) The Captain of the Port Miami may waive any of the requirements of this subpart for any vessel upon finding that the vessel or class of vessel, operational conditions, or other circumstances are such that application of this subpart is unnecessary or impractical for the purpose of port security, safety or environmental safety.

(c) *Definition.* As used in this section, cruise ship means a passenger vessel greater than 100 feet in length and over 100 gross tons that is authorized to carry more than 12 passengers for hire making voyages lasting more than 24 hours, except for a ferry.

(d) *Authority.* In addition to 33 U.S.C. 1231 and 50 U.S.C. 191, the authority for this section includes 33 U.S.C. 1226.

[COTP Miami 02-115, 68 FR 3189, Jan. 23, 2003]