##### § 158.240 Rebating premium if the applicable medical loss ratio standard is not met. #####

Link to an amendment published at 81 FR 94183, Dec. 22, 2016.

(a) *General requirement.* For each MLR reporting year, an issuer must provide a rebate to each enrollee if the issuer's MLR does not meet or exceed the minimum percentage required by §§ 158.210 and 158.211 of this subpart.

(b) *Definition of enrollee for purposes of rebate.* For the sole purpose of determining whom is entitled to receive a rebate pursuant to this part, the term “enrollee” means the subscriber, policyholder, and/or government entity that paid the premium for health care coverage received by an individual during the respective MLR reporting year.

(c) *Amount of rebate to each enrollee.* (1) For each MLR reporting year, an issuer must rebate to the enrollee the total amount of premium revenue, as defined in § 158.130, received by the issuer from the enrollee, after subtracting Federal and State taxes and licensing and regulatory fees as provided in §§ 158.161(a) and 158.162(a)(1) and (b)(1), and after accounting for payments or receipts for risk adjustment, risk corridors, and reinsurance as provided in § 158.130(b)(5), multiplied by the difference between the MLR required by § 158.210 or § 158.211, and the issuer's MLR as calculated under § 158.221.

(2) For example, an issuer must rebate a pro rata portion of premium revenue if it does not meet an 80 percent MLR for the individual market in a State that has not set a higher MLR. If an issuer has a 75 percent MLR for the coverage it offers in the individual market in a State that has not set a higher MLR, the issuer must rebate 5 percent of the premium paid by or on behalf of the enrollee for the MLR reporting year after subtracting a pro rata portion of taxes and fees and accounting for payments or receipts related to the reinsurance, risk adjustment and risk corridors programs (calculated using an adjustment percentage, as described in § 153.500 of this subchapter, equal to zero percent). If the issuer's total earned premium for the MLR reporting year in the individual market in the State is $200,000, the issuer received transitional reinsurance payments of $2,500, and made net payments related to risk adjustment and risk corridors of $20,000 (calculated using an adjustment percentage, as described in § 153.500 of this subchapter, equal to zero percent), the issuer's gross earned premium in the individual market in the State would be $200,000 plus $2,500 minus $20,000, for a total of $182,500. If the issuer's Federal and State taxes and licensing and regulatory fees, including reinsurance contributions, that may be excluded from premium revenue as described in §§ 158.161(a), 158.162(a)(1) and 158.162(b)(1), allocated to the individual market in the State are $15,000, and the net payments related to risk adjustment and risk corridors, reduced by reinsurance receipts, that must be accounted for in premium revenue as described in §§ 158.130(b)(5), 158.221, and 158.240, are $17,500 ($20,000 reduced by $2,500), then the issuer would subtract $15,000 and add $17,500 to gross premium revenue of $182,500, for a base of $185,000 in premium. The issuer would owe rebates of 5 percent of $185,000, or $9,250 in the individual market in the State. In this example, if an enrollee of the issuer in the individual market in the State paid $2,000 in premiums for the MLR reporting year, or 1/100 of the issuer's total premium in that State market, then the enrollee would be entitled to 1/100 of the total rebates owed by the issuer, or $92.50.

(d) *Timing of rebate.* For each of the 2011, 2012, and 2013 MLR reporting years, an issuer must provide any rebate owing to an enrollee no later than August 1 following the end of the MLR reporting year. Beginning with the 2014 MLR reporting year, an issuer must provide any rebate owing to an enrollee no later than September 30 following the end of the MLR reporting year.

(e) *Late payment interest.* An issuer that fails to pay any rebate owing to an enrollee or subscriber in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section or to take other required action within the time periods set forth in this part must, in addition to providing the required rebate to the enrollee, pay the enrollee interest at the current Federal Reserve Board lending rate or ten percent annually, whichever is higher, on the total amount of the rebate, accruing from the date payment was due under paragraph (d) of this section.

[75 FR 74921, Dec. 1, 2010, as amended at 78 FR 15540, Mar. 11, 2013; 79 FR 13842, Mar. 11, 2014]