##### § 1.444-2T Tiered structure (temporary). #####

(a) *General rule.* Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, no section 444 election shall be made or continued with respect to a partnership, S corporation, or personal service corporation that is a member of a tiered structure on the date specified in paragraph (d) of this section. For purposes of this section, the term “personal service corporation” means a personal service corporation as defined in § 1.441-3(c).

(b) *Definition of a member of a tiered structure*—(1) *In general.* A partnership, S corporation, or personal service corporation is considered a member of a tiered structure if—

(i) The partnership, S corporation, or personal service corporation directly owns any portion of a deferral entity, or

(ii) A deferral entity directly owns any portion of the partnership, S corporation, or personal service corporation.

However, see paragraph (c) of this section for certain de minimis rules, and see paragraph (b)(3) of this section for an anti-abuse rule. In addition, for purposes of this section, a beneficiary of a trust shall be considered to own an interest in the trust.

(2) *Deferral entity*—(i) *In general.* For purposes of this section, the term “deferral entity” means an entity that is a partnership, S corporation, personal service corporation, or trust. In the case of an affiliated group of corporations filing a consolidated income tax return that is treated as a personal service corporation pursuant to § 1.441-4T (i), such affiliated group is considered to be a single deferral entity.

(ii) *Grantor trusts.* The term “deferral entity” does not include a trust (or a portion of a trust) which is treated as owned by the grantor or beneficiary under Subpart E, part I, subchapter J, chapter 1, of the Code (relating to grantor trusts), including a trust that is treated as a grantor trust pursuant to section 1361(d)(1)(A) of the Code (relating to qualified subchapter S trusts). Thus, any taxpayer treated under subpart E as owning a portion of a trust shall be treated as owning the assets of the trust attributable to that ownership. The following examples illustrate the provisions of this paragraph (b)(2)(ii).

Example 1.A, an individual, is the sole beneficiary of T. T is a trust that owns 50 percent of the profits and capital of X, a partnership that desires to make a section 444 election. Furthermore, pursuant to Subpart E, Part I, subchapter J, chapter 1 of the Code, A is treated as an owner of X. Based upon these facts, T is not a deferral entity and 50 percent of X is considered to be directly owned by A.Example 2.The facts are the same as in Example 1, except that A is a personal service corporation rather than an individual. Given these facts, 50 percent of X is considered to be directly owned by A, a deferral entity. Thus, X is considered to be a member of a tiered structure.

(3) *Anti-abuse rule.* Notwithstanding paragraph (b)(1) of this section, a partnership, S corporation, or personal service corporation is considered a member of a tiered structure if the partnership, S corporation, personal service corporation, or related taxpayers have organized or reorganized their ownership structure or operations for the principal purpose of obtaining a significant unintended tax benefit from making or continuing a section 444 election. For purposes of the preceding sentence, a significant unintended tax benefit results when a partnership, S corporation, or personal service corporation makes a section 444 election and, as a result, a taxpayer (not limited to the entity making the election) obtains a significant deferral of income substantially all of which is not eliminated by a required payment under section 7519. See examples (15) through (19) in paragraph (f) of this section.

(c) *De minimis rules*—(1) *In general.* For rules relating to a de minimis exception to paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section (the “downstream de minimis rule”), see paragraph (c)(2) of this section. For rules relating to a de minimis exception to paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section (the “upstream de minimis rule”), see paragraph (c)(3) of this section. For rules relating to the interaction of the de minimis rules provided in this paragraph (c) and the “same taxable year exception” provided in paragraph (e) of this section, see paragraph (e)(5) of this section.

(2) *Downstream de minimis rule*—(i) *General rule.* If a partnership, S corporation, or personal service corporation directly owns any portion of one or more deferral entities as of the date specified in paragraph (d) of this section, such ownership is disregarded for purposes of paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section if, in the aggregate, all such deferral entities accounted for—

(A) Not more than 5 percent of the partnership's, S corporation's, or personal service corporation's adjusted taxable income for the testing period (“5 percent adjusted taxable income test”), or

(B) Not more than 2 percent of the partnership's, S corporation's, or personal service corporation's gross income for the testing period (“2 percent gross income test”). See section 702 (c) for rules relating to the determination of gross income of a partner in a partnership.

See examples (3) through (5) in paragraph (f) of this section.

(ii) *Definition of testing period.* For purposes of this paragraph (c)(2), the term “testing period” means the taxable year that ends immediately prior to the taxable year for which the partnership, S corporation, or personal service corporation desires to make or continue a section 444 election. However, see the special rules provided in paragraph (c)(2)(iv) of this section for certain special cases (*e.g.,* the partnership, S corporation, personal service corporation or deferral entity was not in existence during the entire testing period). The following example illustrates the application of this paragraph (c)(2)(ii).

Example.A partnership desires to make a section 444 election for its taxable year beginning November 1, 1987. The testing period for purposes of determining whether deferral entities owned by such partnership are de minimis under paragraph (c)(2) of this section is the taxable year ending October 31, 1987. If either the partnership or the deferral entities were not in existence for the entire taxable year ending October 1, 1987, see the special rules provided in paragraph (c)(2)(iv) of this section.

(iii) *Definition of adjusted taxable income*—(A) *Partnership.* In the case of a partnership, adjusted taxable income for purposes of paragraph (c)(2) of this section is an amount equal to the sum of the—

(*1*) Aggregate amount of the partnership items described in section 702(a) (other than credits and tax-exempt income),

(*2*) Applicable payments defined in section 7519(d)(3) that are deducted in determining the amount described in paragraph (c)(2)(iii)(A)(*1*) of this section, and

(*3*) Guaranteed payments defined in section 707(c) that are deducted in determining the amount described in paragraph (c)(2)(iii)(A)(*1*) of this section and are not otherwise included in paragraph (c)(2)(iii)(A)(*2*) of this section. For purposes of determining the aggregate amount of partnership items under paragraph (c)(2)(iii)(A)(*1*) of this section, deductions and losses are treated as negative income. Thus, for example, if under section 702(a) a partnership has $1,000 of ordinary taxable income, $500 of specially allocated deductions, and $300 of capital loss, the partnership's aggregate amount of partnership items under paragraph (c)(2)(iii)(A)(*1*) of this section is $200 ($1,000-$500-$300).

(B) *S corporation.* In the case of an S corporation, adjusted taxable income for purposes of paragraph (c)(2) of this section is an amount equal to the sum of the—

(*1*) Aggregate amount of the S corporation items described in section 1366(a) (other than credits and tax-exempt income), and

(*2*) Applicable payments defined in section 7519(d)(3) that are deducted in determining the amount described in paragraph (c)(2)(iii)(B)(*1*) of this section.

For purposes of determining the aggregate amount of S corporation items under paragraph (c)(2)(iii)(B)(*1*) of this section, deductions and losses are treated as negative income. Thus, for example, if under section 1366(a) an S corporation has $2,000 of ordinary taxable income, $1,000 of deductions described in section 1366(a)(1)(A) of the Code, and $500 of capital loss, the S corporation's aggregate amount of S corporation items under paragraph (c)(2)(iii)(B)(*1*) of this section is $500 ($2,000-$1,000-$500).

(C) *Personal service corporation.* In the case of a personal service corporation, adjusted taxable income for purposes of paragraph (c)(2) of this section is an amount equal to the sum of the—

(*1*) Taxable income of the personal service corporation, and

(*2*) Applicable amounts defined in section 280H(f)(1) that are deducted in determining the amount described in paragraph (c)(2)(iii)(C)(*1*) of this section.

(iv) *Special rules*—(A) *Pro-forma rule.* Except as provided in paragraph (c)(iv)(C)(*2*) of this section, if a partnership, S corporation, or personal service corporation directly owns any interest in a deferral entity as of the date specified in paragraph (d) of this section and such ownership interest is different in amount from the partnership's, S corporation's, or personal service corporation's interest on any day during the testing period, the 5 percent adjusted taxable income test and the 2 percent gross income test must be applied on a pro-forma basis (*i.e.,* adjusted taxable income and gross income must be calculated for the testing period assuming that the partnership, S corporation, or personal service corporation owned the same interest in the deferral entity that it owned as of the date specified in paragraph (d) of this section). The following example illustrates the application of this paragraph (c)(2)(iv)(A).

Example.A personal service corporation desiring to make a section 444 election for its taxable year beginning October 1, 1987, acquires a 25 percent ownership interest in a partnership on or after October 1, 1987. Furthermore, the partnership has been in existence for several years. The personal service corporation must modify its calculations of the 5 percent adjusted taxable income test and the 2 percent gross income test for the testing period ended September 30, 1987, by assuming that the personal service corporation owned 25 percent of the partnership during such testing period and the personal service corporation's adjusted taxable income and gross income were correspondingly adjusted.

(B) *Reasonable estimates allowed.* If the information necessary to complete the pro-forma calculation described in paragraph (c)(2)(iv)(A) of this section is not readily available, the partnership, S corporation, or personal service corporation may make a reasonable estimate of such information.

(C) *Newly formed entities*—(*1*) *Newly formed deferral entities.* If a partnership, S corporation, or personal service corporation owns any portion of a deferral entity on the date specified in paragraph (d) of this section and such deferral entity was not in existence during the entire testing period (hereinafter referred to as a “newly formed deferral entity”), both the 5 percent adjusted taxable income test and the 2 percent gross income test are modified as follows. First, the partnership, S corporation, or personal service corporation shall calculate the percentage of its adjusted taxable income or gross income that is attributable to deferral entities, excluding newly formed deferral entities. Second, the partnership, S corporation, or personal service corporation shall calculate (on the date specified in paragraph (d) of this section) the percentage of the tax basis of its assets that are attributable to its tax basis with respect to its ownership interests in all newly formed deferral entities. If the sum of the two percentages is 5 percent or less, the deferral entities are considered de minimis and are disregarded for purposes of paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section. If the sum of the two percentages is greater than 5 percent, the deferral entities do not qualify for the de minimis rule provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section and thus the partnership, S corporation, or personal service corporation is considered to be a member of a tiered structure for purposes of this section.

(*2*) *Newly formed partnership, S corporation, or personal service corporation desiring to make a section 444 election.* If a partnership, S corporation, or personal service corporation desires to make a section 444 election for the first taxable year of its existence, the 5 percent adjusted taxable income test and the 2 percent gross income test are replaced by a 5 percent of assets test. Thus, if on the date specified in paragraph (d) of this section, 5 percent or less of the assets (measured by reference to the tax basis of the assets) of the newly formed partnership, S corporation, or personal service corporation are attributable to the tax basis with respect to its ownership interests in the deferral entities, the deferral entities will be considered de minimis and will be disregarded for purposes of paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section.

(*3*) *Upstream de minimis rule.* If a partnership, S corporation, or personal service corporation is directly owned by one or more deferral entities as of the date specified in paragraph (d) of this section, such ownership is disregarded for purposes of paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section if on the date specified in paragraph (d) of this section the deferral entities directly own, in the aggregate, 5 percent or less of—

(*i*) An interest in the current profits of the partnership, or

(*ii*) The stock (measured by value) of the S corporation or personal service corporation.

See examples (6) and (7) in paragraph (f) of this section.

(d) *Date for determining the existence of a tiered structure*—(1) *General rule.* For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, a partnership, S corporation, or personal service corporation will be considered a member of a tiered structure for a particular taxable year if the partnership, S corporation, or personal service corporation is a member of a tiered structure on the last day of the required taxable year (as defined in section 444 (e) of the Code) ending within such year. If a particular taxable year does not include the last day of the required taxable year for such year, the partnership, S corporation, or personal service corporation will not be considered a member of a tiered structure for such year. The following examples illustrate the application of this paragraph (d)(1).

Example 1.Assume that a newly formed partnership whose first taxable year begins November 1, 1988, desires to adopt a September 30 taxable year by making a section 444 election. Furthermore, assume that for its taxable year beginning November 1, 1988, the partnership's required taxable year is December 31. If the partnership is a member of a tiered structure on December 31, 1988, it will not be eligible to make a section 444 election for a taxable year beginning November 1, 1988, and ending September 30, 1989.Example 2.Assume an S corporation that historically used a June 30 taxable year desires to make a section 444 election to change to a year ending September 30 for its taxable year beginning July 1, 1987. If the S corporation can make the section 444 election, it will have a short taxable year beginning July 1, 1987, and ending September 30, 1987. Given these facts, the short taxable year beginning July 1, 1987, does not include the last day of the S corporation's required taxable year for such year (*i.e.,* December 31, 1987). Thus, pursuant to paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the S corporation will not be considered a member of a tiered structure for its taxable year beginning July 1, 1987, and ending September 30, 1987.

(2) *Special rule for taxable years beginning in 1987.* For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, a partnership, S corporation, or personal service corporation will not be considered a member of a tiered structure for a taxable year beginning in 1987 if the partnership, S corporation, or personal service corporation is not a member of a tiered structure on the day the partnership, S corporation, or personal service corporation timely files its section 444 election for such year. The following examples illustrate the application of this paragraph (d)(2).

Example 1.Assume that a partnership desires to retain a June 30 taxable year by making a section 444 election for its taxable year beginning July 1, 1987. Furthermore, assume that the partnership's required taxable year for such year is December 31 and that the partnership was a member of a tiered structure on such date. Also assume that the partnership was not a member of a tiered structure as of the date it timely filed its section 444 election for its taxable year beginning July 1, 1987. Based upon the special rule provided in this paragraph (d)(2), the partnership will not be considered a member of a tiered structure for its taxable year beginning July 1, 1987.Example 2.Assume the same facts as in Example 1, except that the partnership was a member of a tiered structure on the date it filed its section 444 election for its taxable year beginning July 1, 1987, but was not a member of a tiered structure on December 31, 1987. Paragraph (d)(1) of this section would still apply and thus the partnership would not be considered part of a tiered structure for its taxable year beginning July 1, 1987. However, the partnership would be considered a member of a tiered structure for its taxable year beginning July 1, 1988, if the partnership was a member of a tiered structure on December 31, 1988.

(e) *Same taxable year exception*—(1) *In general.* Although a partnership or S corporation is a member of a tiered structure as of the date specified in paragraph (d) of this section, the partnership, S corporation may make or continue a section 444 election if the tiered structure (as defined in paragraph (e)(2) of this section) consists entirely of partnerships or S corporations (or both), all of which have the same taxable year as determined under paragraph (e)(3) of this section. However, see paragraph (e)(5) of this section for the interaction of the de minimis rules provided in paragraph (c) of this section with the same taxable year exception. For purposes of this paragraph (e), two or more entities are considered to have the same taxable year if their taxable years end on the same day, even though they begin on different days. See examples (8) through (14) in paragraph (f) of this section.

(2) *Definition of tiered structure*—(i) *General rule.* For purposes of the same taxable year exception, the members of a tiered structure are defined to include the following entities—

(A) The partnership or S corporation that desires to qualify for the same taxable year exception,

(B) A deferral entity (or entities) directly owned (in whole or in part) by the partnership or S corporation that desires to qualify for the same taxable year exception,

(C) A deferral entity (or entities) directly owning any portion of the partnership or S corporation that desires to qualify for the same taxable year exception, and

(D) A deferral entity (or entities) directly owned (in whole or in part) by a “downstream controlled partnership,” as defined in paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section.

(ii) *Special flow-through rule for downstream controlled partnerships.* If more than 50 percent of a partnership's profits and capital are owned by a partnership or S corporation that desires to qualify for the same taxable year exception, such owned partnership is considered a downstream controlled partnership for purposes of paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section. Furthermore, if more than 50 percent of a partnership's profits and capital are owned by a downstream controlled partnership, such owned partnership is considered a downstream controlled partnership for purposes of paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section.

(3) *Determining the taxable year of a partnership or S corporation.* The taxable year of a partnership or S corporation to be taken into account for purposes of paragraph (e)(1) of this section is the taxable year ending with or prior to the date specified in paragraph (d) of this section. Furthermore, the determination of such taxable year will take into consideration any section 444 elections made by the partnership or S corporation. See examples (10) and (11) in paragraph (f) of this section.

(4) *Special rule for 52-53-week taxable years.* For purposes of this paragraph (e), a 52-53-week taxable year with reference to the end of a particular month will be considered to be the same as a taxable year ending with reference to the last day of such month.

(5) *Interaction with de minimis rules*—(i) *Downstream de minimis rule*—(A) *In general.* If a partnership or S corporation that desires to make or continue a section 444 election is a member of a tiered structure (as defined in paragraph (e)(2) of this section) and directly owns any member (or members) of the tiered structure with a taxable year different from the taxable year of the partnership or S corporation, such ownership is disregarded for purposes of the same taxable year exception of paragraph (e)(1) of this section provided that, in the aggregate, the de minimis rule of paragraph (c)(2) of this section is satisfied with respect to such owned member (or members). The following example illustrates the application of this paragraph (e)(5)(i)(A).

Example.P, a partnership with a June 30 taxable year, owns 60 percent of P1, another partnership with a June 30 taxable year. P also owns 1 percent of P2 and P3, calendar year partnerships. If, in the aggregate, P's ownership interests in P2 and P3 are considered de minimis under paragraph (c)(2) of this section, P meets the same taxable year exception and may make a section 444 election to retain its June 30 taxable year.

(B) *Special rule for members of a tiered structure directly owned by a downstream controlled partnership.* For purposes of paragraph (e)(5)(i)(A) of this section, a partnership or S corporation desiring to make or continue a section 444 election is considered to directly own any member of the tiered structure (as defined in paragraph (e)(2) of this section) directly owned by a downstream controlled partnership (as defined in paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section). The adjusted taxable income or gross income of the partnership or S corporation that is attributable to a member of a tiered structure directly owned by a downstream controlled partnership equals the adjusted taxable income or gross income of such member multiplied by the partnership's or S corporation's indirect ownership percentage of such member. The following example illustrates the application of this paragraph (e)(5)(i)(B).

Example.P, a partnership, desires to retain its June 30 taxable year by making a section 444 election. However, as of the date specified in paragraph (d) of this section, P owns 75 percent of P1, a June 30 partnership, and P1 owns 40 percent of P2, a calendar year partnership. P also owns 25 percent of P3, a calendar year partnership. Pursuant to paragraphs (e)(5)(i) (A) and (B) of this section, P may only qualify to use the same taxable year exception if, in the aggregate, P2 and P3 are de minimis with respect to P. Pursuant to paragraph (e)(5)(i)(B) of this section, P's adjusted taxable income or gross income attributable to P2 equals 30 percent (75 percent times 40 percent) of P2's adjusted taxable income or gross income.

(ii) *Upstream de minimis rule.* If a partnership or S corporation that desires to make or continue a section 444 election is a member of a tiered structure (as defined in paragraph (e)(2) of this section) and is owned directly by a member (or members) of the tiered structure with taxable years different from the taxable year of the partnership or S corporation, such ownership is disregarded for purposes of the same taxable year exception of paragraph (e)(1) of this section provided that, in the aggregate, the de minimis rule of paragraph (c)(3) of this section is satisfied with respect to such owning member (or members). See Example 12 of paragraph (f) of this section.

(f) *Examples.* The provisions of this section may be illustrated by the following examples.

Example 1.A, a partnership, desires to make or continue a section 444 election. However, on the date specified in paragraph (d) of this section, A is owned by a combination of individuals and S corporations. The S corporations are deferral entities, as defined in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. Thus, pursuant to paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, A will be a member of a tiered structure unless under paragraph (c)(3) of this section, the S corporations, in the aggregate, own a de minimis portion of A. If the S corporations' ownership in A is not considered de minimis under paragraph (c)(3) of this section, A is a member of a tiered structure and will be allowed to make or continue a section 444 election only if it meets the same taxable year exception provided in paragraph (e) of this section.Example 2.B, a partnership, desires to make or continue a section 444 election. However, on the date specified in paragraph (d) of this section, B is a partner in two partnerships, B1 and B2. B1 and B2 are deferral entities, as defined in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. Thus, under paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, B will be a member of a tiered structure unless B's aggregate ownership interests in B1 and B2 are considered de minimis under paragraph (c)(2) of this section. If B is a member of a tiered structure on the date specified in paragraph (d) of this section, B will be allowed to make or continue a section 444 election only if it meets the same taxable year exception provided in paragraph (e) of this section.Example 3.C, a partnership with a September 30 taxable year, is 100 percent owned by calendar year individuals. C desires to make a section 444 election for its taxable year beginning October 1, 1987. However, on the date specified in paragraph (d) of this section, C owns a 1 percent interest in C1, a partnership. C does not own any other interest in a deferral entity. For the taxable year ended September 30, 1987, 10 percent of C's adjusted taxable income (as defined in paragraph (c)(2)(iii) of this section) was attributable to C's partnership interest in C1. Furthermore, 4 percent of C's gross income for the taxable year ended September 30, 1987, was attributable to C's partnership interest in C1. Under paragraph (c)(2) of this section, C's partnership interest in C1 is not de minimis because during the testing period more than 5 percent of C's adjusted taxable income is attributable to C1 and more than 2 percent of C's gross income is attributable to C1. Thus, C is a member of a tiered structure for its taxable year beginning October 1, 1987.Example 4.The facts are the same as Example 3, except that for the taxable year ended September 30, 1987, only 2 percent of C's adjusted taxable income was attributable to C1. Under paragraph (c)(2) of this section, C's partnership interest in C1 is considered de minimis for purposes of determining whether C is a member of a tiered structure because not more than 5 percent of C's adjusted taxable income during the testing period is attributable to C1. Thus, C is not a member of a tiered structure for its taxable year beginning October 1, 1987.Example 5.The facts are the same as Example 4, except that in addition to owning C1, C also owns 15 percent of C2, another partnership. For the taxable year ended September 30, 1987, 2 percent of C's adjusted taxable income is attributable to C1 and an additional 4 percent is attributable to C2. Furthermore, for the taxable year ended September 30, 1987, 4 percent of C's gross income is attributable to C1 while 3 percent is attributable to C2. Under paragraph (c)(2) of this section, C1 and C2 must be aggregated for purposes of determining whether C meets either the 5 percent adjusted taxable income test or the 2 percent gross income test. Since C's adjusted taxable income attributable to C1 and C2 is 6 percent (2 percent + 4 percent) and C's gross income attributable to C1 and C2 is 7 percent (4 percent + 3 percent), C does not meet the downstream de minimis rule provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section. Thus, C is a member of a tiered structure for its taxable year beginning October 1, 1987.Example 6.The facts are the same as Example 3, except that instead of determining whether C is part of a tiered structure, the issue is whether C1 is part of a tiered structure. In addition, assume that on the date specified in paragraph (d) of this section, the remaining 99 percent of C1 is owned by calendar year individuals and C1 does not own an interest in any deferral entity. Although C in Example 3 was considered to be a part of a tiered structure by virtue of its ownership interest in C1, C1 must be tested separately to determine whether it is part of a tiered structure. Since C's interest in C1 is 5 percent or less, C's interest in C1 is de minimis with respect to C1. See paragraph (c)(3) of this section. Thus, based upon these facts, C1 is not part of a tiered structure.Example 7.The facts are the same as Example 6, except that the remaining 99 percent of C1 is owned 94 percent by calendar year individuals and 5 percent by C3, another partnership. Thus, deferral entities own 6 percent of C1 (1 percent owned by C and 5 percent owned by C3). Under paragraph (c)(3) of this section, deferral entities own more than a de minimis interest (*i.e.*, 5 percent) of C1, and thus C1 is part of a tiered structure.Example 8.D, a partnership with a September 30 taxable year, desires to make a section 444 election for its taxable year beginning October 1, 1987. On December 31, 1987, and the date D plans to file its section 444 election, D is 10 percent owned by D1, a personal service corporation with a September 30 taxable year, and 90 percent owned by calendar year individuals. Furthermore, D1 will retain its September 30 taxable year because it previously established a business purpose for such year. Since D is owned in part by D1, a personal service corporation, and the ownership interest is not de minimis under paragraph (c)(3) of this section, D is considered a member of a tiered structure for its taxable year beginning October 1, 1987. Furthermore, although D and D1 have the same taxable year, D does not qualify for the same taxable year exception provided in paragraph (e) of this section because D1 is a personal service corporation rather than a partnership or S corporation. Thus, pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, D may not make a section 444 election for its taxable year beginning October 1, 1987.Example 9.The facts are the same as Example 8, except that D1 is a partnership rather than a personal service corporation. Based upon these facts, D qualifies for the same taxable year exception provided in paragraph (e) of this section. Thus, D may make a section 444 election for its taxable year beginning October 1, 1987.Example 10.The facts are the same as Example 9, except that D1 has not established a business purpose for a September 30 taxable year. In addition, D1 does not desire to make a section 444 election and, under section 706(b), D1 will be required to change to a calendar year for its taxable year beginning October 1, 1987. Pursuant to paragraph (e)(3) of this section, D and D1 do not have the same taxable year for purposes of the same taxable year exception provided in paragraph (e) of this section. Thus, D may not make a section 444 election for its taxable year beginning October 1, 1987.Example 11.The facts are the same as Example 8, except that D1 is a partnership with a March 31 taxable year. Furthermore, for its taxable year beginning April 1, 1987, D1 will change to a September 30 taxable year by making a section 444 election. Pursuant to paragraph (e)(3) of this section, D1 is considered to have a September 30 taxable year for purposes of determining whether D qualifies for the same taxable year exception provided in paragraph (e) of this section. Since both D and D1 will have the same taxable year as of the date specified in paragraph (d) of this section, D may make a section 444 election for its taxable year beginning October 1, 1987.Example 12.The facts are the same as Example 11, except that instead of the remaining 90 percent of D being owned by calendar year individuals, it is owned 86 percent by individuals and 4 percent by D2, a calendar year partnership. Thus, D, a September 30 partnership, is 10 percent owned by D1, a September 30 partnership, 86 percent owned by calendar year individuals, and 4 percent owned by D2, a calendar year partnership. Under paragraph (e)(5)(ii) of this section, D2's ownership interest in D is considered de minimis for purposes of the same taxable year exception. Since D2's ownership interest in D is considered de minimis, it is disregarded for purposes of determining whether D qualifies for the same taxable year exception provided in paragraph (e) of this section. Thus, since both D and D1 will have the same taxable year as of the date specified in paragraph (d) of this section, D may make a section 444 election for its taxable year beginning October 1, 1987.Example 13.E, a partnership with a June 30 taxable year, desires to make a section 444 election for its taxable year beginning July 1, 1987. On the date specified in paragraph (d) of this section, E is 100 percent owned by calendar year individuals; E owns 99 percent of the profits and capital of E1, a partnership with a June 30 taxable year; and E1 owns 30 percent of the profits and capital of E2, a partnership with a September 30 taxable year. E owns no other deferral entities. Pursuant to paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, E is considered to be a member of a tiered structure. Furthermore, pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section, E does not qualify for the same taxable year exception because E2 does not have the same taxable year as E and E1.Example 14.The facts are the same as Example 13, except that E owns only 49 percent (rather than 99 percent) of the profits and capital of E1. Pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section, E qualifies for the same taxable year exception because E and E1 have the same taxable year. Pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section, E1's ownership interest in E2 is disregarded since E does not own more than 50 percent of E1's profits and capital.Example 15.Prior to consideration of the anti-abuse rule provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, H, a partnership that commenced operations on October 1, 1987, is eligible to make a section 444 election for its taxable year beginning October 1, 1987. Although H may obtain a significant deferral of income substantially all of which is not eliminated by a required payment under section 7519 (since there will be no required payment for H's first taxable year), the anti-abuse rule of paragraph (b)(3) will not apply unless the principal purpose of organizing H was the attainment of a significant deferral of income that would result from making a section 444 election.Example 16.F, a partnership with a January 31 taxable year, desires to make a section 444 election to retain its January 31 taxable year for the taxable year beginning February 1, 1987. F is 100 percent owned by calendar year individuals. Prior to the date specified in paragraph (d) of this section, F contributes substantially all of its assets to F1, a partnership, in exchange for a 51 percent interest in F1. The remaining 49 percent of F1 is owned by the calendar year individuals owning 100 percent of F. If F is allowed to make a section 444 election to retain its January 31 taxable year, F1's required taxable year will be January 31 since a majority of F1's partners use a January 31 taxable year (see § 1.706-3T). F's principal purpose for creating F1 and contributing its assets to F1 is to obtain an 11-month deferral on 49 percent of the income previously earned by F and now earned by F1. Pursuant to paragraph (b)(3) of this section, F is not allowed to make a section 444 election for its taxable year beginning February 1, 1987.Example 17.The facts are the same as in Example 16, except that F does not create F1 and contribute its assets to F1 until immediately after F makes its section 444 election for the taxable year beginning February 1, 1987. Thus, F is allowed to make a section 444 election for its taxable year beginning February 1, 1987. However, pursuant to paragraph (b)(3) of this section, F will have its section 444 election terminated for subsequent years unless the tax deferral inherent in the structure is eliminated (*e.g.,* F1 is liquidated or the individual owners of F contribute their interests in F1 to F) prior to the date specified in paragraph (d) of this section for subsequent taxable years beginning on or after February 1, 1988.Example 18.The facts are the same as in Example 16, except that F1 is 99 percent owned by F and none of the individual owners of F own any portion of F1. Furthermore, F obtained no tax benefit from creating and contributing assets to F1. Given these facts paragraph (b)(3) of this section does not apply and thus, F may make a section 444 election for its taxable year beginning February 1, 1987.Example 19.G, a partnership with an October 31 taxable year, desires to retain its October 31 taxable year for its taxable year beginning November 1, 1987. However, as of December 31, 1987, G owns a 30 percent interest in G1, a calendar year partnership. G owns no other deferral entity, and G is 100 percent owned by calendar year individuals. Furthermore, G's interest in G1 does not meet the de minimis rule provided in paragraph (c)(3) of this section. Thus, in order to avoid being a tiered structure, G sells its interest in G1 to an unrelated third party prior to the date G timely makes it section 444 election for its taxable year beginning November 1, 1987. Although the sale of G1 allows G to qualify to make a section 444 election, and therefore to obtain a significant tax benefit, such benefit is not unintended. Thus, paragraph (b)(3) of this section does not apply, and G may make a section 444 election for its taxable year beginning November 1, 1987.

(g) *Effective date.* This section is effective for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1986.

[T.D. 8205, 53 FR 19698, May 27, 1988, as amended by T.D. 8996, 67 FR 35012, May 17, 2002]