##### § 1830.2 Requirements for making Privacy Act requests. #####

(a) *How made and addressed.* A request for OSC records under the Privacy Act should be made by writing to the agency. The request should be sent by regular mail addressed to: Privacy Act Officer, U.S. Office of Special Counsel, 1730 M Street, N.W. (Suite 218), Washington, DC 20036-4505. Such requests may also be faxed to the Privacy Act Officer at the number provided on the FOIA/PA page of OSC's web site (see 1830.1). For the quickest handling, both the request letter and envelope or any fax cover sheet should be clearly marked “Privacy Act Request.” A Privacy Act request may also be delivered in person at OSC's headquarters office in Washington, DC. Whether sent by mail or by fax, or delivered in person, a Privacy Act request will not be considered to have been received by OSC until it reaches the Privacy Act Officer.

(b) *Description of records sought.* Requesters must describe the records sought in enough detail for them to be located with a reasonable amount of effort. Whenever possible, requests should describe any particular record sought, such as the date, title or name, author, recipient, and subject matter.

(c) *Proof of identity.* Requests received by mail, fax, or personal delivery should contain sufficient information to enable OSC to determine that the requester and the subject of the record are one and the same. To assist in this process, an individual should submit his or her name and home address, business title and address, and any other known identifying information such as an agency file number or identification number, a description of the circumstances under which the records were compiled, and any other information deemed necessary by OSC to properly process the request. An individual delivering a request in person may be required to present proof of identity, preferably a government-issued document bearing the individual's photograph.

(d) *Freedom of Information Act processing.* OSC also processes all Privacy Act requests for access to records under the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552, following the rules contained in part 1820 of this chapter, which gives requesters the benefit of both statutes.