cfr/title-43-Public-Lands-Interior/subtitle-B-Regulations-Relating-Public-Lands/chapter-I-Bureau-Reclamation-Department-Interior/part-423-Public-Conduct-Bureau-Reclamation-Facilities-Lands-Waterbodies/subpart-C-Rules-Conduct/section-423.41.md, before:

##### § 423.41 Aircraft. #####

Link to an amendment published at 88 FR 80992, Nov. 21, 2023.

(a) You must comply with any applicable Federal, State, and local laws, and with any additional requirements or restrictions established by an authorized official in a special use area under subpart E of this part 423, with respect to aircraft landings, takeoffs, and operation on or in the proximity of Reclamation facilities, lands, and waterbodies. Pilots are responsible for awareness of all applicable laws, regulations, requirements, and restrictions. This paragraph does not apply to pilots engaged in emergency rescue or in the official business of Federal, State, or local governments or law enforcement agencies, or who are forced to land due to circumstances beyond the pilot's control.

(b) You must not operate any aircraft while on or above Reclamation facilities, lands, and waterbodies in a careless, negligent, or reckless manner so as to endanger any person, property, or natural feature.

(c) This section does not provide authority to deviate from Federal or State regulations, or prescribed standards, including, but not limited to, regulations and standards concerning pilot certifications or ratings and airspace requirements.

(d) Except in extreme emergencies threatening human life or serious property loss, you must not use non-standard boarding and loading procedures to deliver or retrieve people, material, or equipment by parachute, balloon, helicopter, or other aircraft.

(e) You must comply with all applicable U.S. Coast Guard rules when operating a seaplane on Reclamation waterbodies.

(f) You must securely moor any seaplane remaining on Reclamation waterbodies in excess of 24 hours at mooring facilities and locations designated by an authorized official. Seaplanes may be moored for periods of less than 24 hours on Reclamation waterbodies, except in special use areas otherwise designated by an authorized official, provided:

(1) The mooring is safe, secure, and accomplished so as not to damage the rights of the Government or the safety of persons; and

(2) The operator remains in the vicinity of the seaplane and reasonably available to relocate the seaplane if necessary.

(g) You must not operate model aircraft except as allowed in special use areas established by an authorized official under subpart E of this part 423.

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2023-12-21 issue
Title: 12: Banks and Banking - Sections changed: 3
Title: 10: Energy - Sections changed: 10
Title: 48: Federal Acquisition Regulations System - Sections changed: 1
Title: 21: Food and Drugs - Sections changed: 4
Title: 26: Internal Revenue - Sections changed: 2
Title: 29: Labor - Sections changed: 1
Title: 33: Navigation and Navigable Waters - Sections changed: 5
Title: 37: Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights - Sections changed: 1
Title: 40: Protection of Environment - Sections changed: 2
Title: 43: Public Lands: Interior - Sections changed: 13
Title: 45: Public Welfare - Sections changed: 1
Title: 46: Shipping - Sections changed: 4
Title: 47: Telecommunication - Sections changed: 4
Title: 50: Wildlife and Fisheries - Sections changed: 3

cfr/title-43-Public-Lands-Interior/subtitle-B-Regulations-Relating-Public-Lands/chapter-I-Bureau-Reclamation-Department-Interior/part-423-Public-Conduct-Bureau-Reclamation-Facilities-Lands-Waterbodies/subpart-C-Rules-Conduct/section-423.41.md, after:

##### § 423.41 Aircraft. #####

(a) You must comply with any applicable Federal, State, and local laws, and with any additional requirements or restrictions established by an authorized official in a special use area under subpart E of this part 423, with respect to aircraft landings, takeoffs, and operation on or in the proximity of Reclamation facilities, lands, and waterbodies. Pilots are responsible for awareness of all applicable laws, regulations, requirements, and restrictions. This paragraph does not apply to pilots engaged in emergency rescue or in the official business of Federal, State, or local governments or law enforcement agencies, or who are forced to land due to circumstances beyond the pilot's control.

(b) Aircraft flight altitudes are as follows:

(1) You must not operate any aircraft within 400 feet near or over dams, powerplants, electrical switchyards, pumping plants, spillways, stilling basins, gates, intake structures, outlet works, warehouses, offices, maintenance facilities, campgrounds, gate houses, control houses, or other occupied recreation or operations facilities without prior approval by an authorized official.

(2) You must not operate any aircraft on or above Reclamation facilities, lands, and waterbodies in a careless, negligent, or reckless manner so as to endanger or harass persons or wildlife or pose a risk to infrastructure or natural or cultural resources.

(c) Temporary flight restrictions are as follows:

(1) You must not operate an aircraft on or above Reclamation facilities, lands, and waterbodies in violation of a temporary flight restriction established by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) without prior approval by an authorized officer.

(2) This section does not provide authority to deviate from Federal or State regulations, or prescribed standards, including, but not limited to, regulations and standards concerning pilot certifications or ratings and airspace requirements.

(d) Except in extreme emergencies threatening human life or serious property loss, you must not use non-standard boarding and loading procedures to deliver or retrieve people, material, or equipment by parachute, balloon, helicopter, or other aircraft.

(e) You must comply with all applicable FAA and U.S. Coast Guard regulations (14 CFR parts 1, 61, and 91 and 33 CFR part 104, respectively) when operating a float/ski-equipped aircraft, including seaplanes, on Reclamation waterbodies.

(f) You must securely moor any float/ski-equipped aircraft, including seaplanes, remaining on Reclamation waterbodies in excess of 24 hours at mooring facilities and locations designated by an authorized official. Float/ski-equipped aircraft, including seaplanes, may be moored for periods of less than 24 hours on Reclamation waterbodies, except in special use areas otherwise designated by an authorized official, provided:

(1) The mooring is safe, secure, and accomplished so as not to damage the rights of the Government or the safety of persons; and

(2) The operator remains in the vicinity of the float/ski-equipped aircraft, including seaplanes, and is reasonably available to relocate the aircraft if necessary.

[73 FR 75349, Dec. 11, 2008, as amended at 88 FR 80992, Nov. 21, 2023]
