cfr/title-42-Public-Health/chapter-IV-Centers-Medicare-amp-Medicaid-Services-Department-Health-Human-Services/subchapter-B-Medicare-Program/part-405-Federal-Health-Insurance-Aged-Disabled/subpart-X-Rural-Health-Clinic-Federally-Qualified-Health-Center-Services/section-405.2416.md, before:

##### § 405.2416 Visiting nurse services. #####

(a) Visiting nurse services are covered if the services meet all of the following:

(1) The RHC or FQHC is located in an area in which the Secretary has determined that there is a shortage of home health agencies.

(2) The services are rendered to a homebound individual.

(3) The services are furnished by a registered professional nurse or licensed practical nurse that is employed by, or receives compensation for the services from the RHC or FQHC.

(4) The services are furnished under a written plan of treatment that is both of the following:

(i)(A) Established and reviewed at least every 60 days by a supervising physician of the RHC or FQHC; or

(B)(*1*) Established by a nurse practitioner, physician assistant or certified nurse midwife; and

(*2*) Reviewed at least every 60 days by a supervising physician.

(ii) Signed by the supervising physician, nurse practitioner, physician assistant or certified nurse midwife of the RHC or FQHC.

(b) The nursing care covered by this section includes the following:

(1) Services that must be performed by a registered professional nurse or licensed practical nurse if the safety of the patient is to be assured and the medically desired results achieved.

(2) Personal care services, to the extent covered under Medicare as home health services. These services include helping the patient to bathe, to get in and out of bed, to exercise and to take medications.

(c) This benefit does not cover household and housekeeping services or other services that would constitute custodial care.

(d) For purposes of this section, *homebound* means an individual who is permanently or temporarily confined to his or her place of residence because of a medical or health condition. The individual may be considered homebound if he or she leaves the place of residence infrequently. For this purpose, “place of residence” does not include a hospital or long term care facility.

[43 FR 8261, Mar. 1, 1978, as amended at 79 FR 25475, May 2, 2014]

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2020-04-06 issue
Title: 17: Commodity and Securities Exchanges - Sections changed: 16
Title: 19: Customs Duties - Sections changed: 2
Title: 21: Food and Drugs - Sections changed: 2
Title: 24: Housing and Urban Development - Sections changed: 14
Title: 26: Internal Revenue - Sections changed: 10
Title: 29: Labor - Sections changed: 3
Title: 38: Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief - Sections changed: 3
Title: 40: Protection of Environment - Sections changed: 47
Title: 42: Public Health - Sections changed: 36
Title: 50: Wildlife and Fisheries - Sections changed: 2

cfr/title-42-Public-Health/chapter-IV-Centers-Medicare-amp-Medicaid-Services-Department-Health-Human-Services/subchapter-B-Medicare-Program/part-405-Federal-Health-Insurance-Aged-Disabled/subpart-X-Rural-Health-Clinic-Federally-Qualified-Health-Center-Services/section-405.2416.md, after:

##### § 405.2416 Visiting nurse services. #####

(a) Visiting nurse services are covered if the services meet all of the following:

(1) The RHC or FQHC is located in an area in which the Secretary has determined that there is a shortage of home health agencies.

(2) The services are rendered to a homebound individual.

(3) The services are furnished by a registered professional nurse or licensed practical nurse that is employed by, or receives compensation for the services from the RHC or FQHC.

(4) The services are furnished under a written plan of treatment that is both of the following:

(i)(A) Established and reviewed at least every 60 days by a supervising physician of the RHC or FQHC; or

(B)(*1*) Established by a nurse practitioner, physician assistant or certified nurse midwife; and

(*2*) Reviewed at least every 60 days by a supervising physician.

(ii) Signed by the supervising physician, nurse practitioner, physician assistant or certified nurse midwife of the RHC or FQHC.

(5) During a PHE, as defined in § 400.200 of this chapter, an area typically served by the RHC, and an area that is included in the FQHC's service area plan, is determined to have a shortage of home health agencies, and no request for this determination is required.

(b) The nursing care covered by this section includes the following:

(1) Services that must be performed by a registered professional nurse or licensed practical nurse if the safety of the patient is to be assured and the medically desired results achieved.

(2) Personal care services, to the extent covered under Medicare as home health services. These services include helping the patient to bathe, to get in and out of bed, to exercise and to take medications.

(c) This benefit does not cover household and housekeeping services or other services that would constitute custodial care.

(d) For purposes of this section, *homebound* means an individual who is permanently or temporarily confined to his or her place of residence because of a medical or health condition. The individual may be considered homebound if he or she leaves the place of residence infrequently. For this purpose, “place of residence” does not include a hospital or long term care facility.

[43 FR 8261, Mar. 1, 1978, as amended at 79 FR 25475, May 2, 2014; 85 FR 19285, Apr. 6, 2020]
