##### § 5001.203 Appraisals. #####

Link to an amendment published at 89 FR 79718, Sept. 30, 2024.

Appraisals of collateral are required as set forth in this section. The lender is responsible for ensuring that appraisal values adequately reflect the actual value of the collateral based on an arm's length transaction. Completed appraisals should be submitted when the application is filed. If the appraisal has not been completed when the application is filed, the lender must submit an estimated appraised value. Prior to the issuance of the loan note guarantee, the estimated value must be supported with an appraisal acceptable to the agency.

(a) *Newly-acquired chattel.* A bill of sale may be submitted to support the value of newly-acquired chattel.

(b) *Existing chattel.* The lender must obtain appraisal(s) for existing chattel collateral when its value exceeds $250,000.

(c) *Real estate.* The lender must obtain appraisals for real estate collateral when the value of the collateral exceeds $500,000 or the current limitation established under the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act (FIRREA) Public Law 101-73, 103 Stat. 183 (1989). Real estate and chattels with a value below these thresholds must be evaluated in accordance with the lender's primary regulator's policies relating to appraisals and evaluations or, if the lender is not regulated, in accordance with normal banking practices and generally accepted methods of determining value.

(1) For construction projects, the lender must:

(i) Obtain the “As Is” market value and the “prospective” market value as of the date of construction completion to determine the value of the real estate property, or

(ii) Obtain an income-based appraisal as of the date of completion to determine the value of revenues to be generated by the real estate.

(d) *Appraisal standards.* (1) Each real estate appraisal must be conducted by an independent qualified appraiser in accordance with the USPAP or successor standards. All real estate appraisals must meet the requirements contained in the FIRREA, and the appropriate guidelines contained in Standards 1 and 2 of the USPAP and be performed by a State Certified General Appraiser licensed in the state in which the real estate is located.

(2) Chattel appraisals must be conducted by an independent qualified appraiser and must be based on industry recognized standards and reflect the age, condition, and remaining useful life of the equipment.

(e) *Interagency appraisal and evaluations guidelines.* Notwithstanding any exemption that may exist for transactions guaranteed by a Federal Government agency, all appraisals obtained by the lender under this part must conform to the interagency appraisal and evaluations guidelines established by the lender's primary Federal or State regulator, if applicable.

(f) *Environmental considerations.* When the Agency will take a lien on real property, the real estate appraisals must include consideration of the potential effects from a release of hazardous substances or petroleum products or other environmental hazards on the market value of the collateral, as determined in accordance with the appropriate ASTM International Real Estate Assessment and Management environmental standards.

(g) *Appraisal review report.* The lender must submit its complete technical review of the appraisal in an appraisal review report prepared in compliance with USPAP Standards 3 and 4 to the Agency before guaranteed loan closing.

(1) Appraisals must not be more than one year old. However, the Agency may request a more recent appraisal in order to reflect more current market conditions.

(2) The lender must provide documentation that, in addition to the other requirements of this section pertaining to appraisers, the appraiser has the necessary experience and competency to appraise collateral.

(h) *Appraisal fees.* Unless otherwise stated in this part, appraisal fees or any other associated costs will not be paid by the Agency.