##### ยง 502.77 Proceedings involving assessment agreements. #####

Link to an amendment published at 81 FR 93836, Dec. 22, 2016.Link to a correction published at 82 FR 46, Jan. 3, 2017.This amendment and its correction were delayed until Apr. 3, 2017 at 82 FR 8903, Feb. 1, 2017.

(a) In complaint proceedings involving assessment agreements filed under section 5(e) of the Shipping Act of 1984 (46 U.S.C. 40301(e), 40305), the Notice of Filing of Complaint and Assignment will specify a date before which the initial decision will be issued, which date will not be more than eight months from the date the complaint was filed.

(b) Any party to a proceeding conducted under this section who desires to utilize the prehearing discovery procedures provided by subpart L of this part must commence doing so at the time it files its initial pleading, i.e., complaint, answer, or petition for leave to intervene. Discovery matters accompanying complaints must be filed with the Secretary of the Commission for service pursuant to ยง 502.113. Answers or objections to discovery requests must be subject to the normal provisions set forth in subpart L.

(c) Exceptions to the decision of the presiding officer, filed pursuant to ยง 502.227, must be filed and served no later than 15 days after date of service of the initial decision. Replies thereto must be filed and served no later than 15 days after date of service of exceptions. In the absence of exceptions, the decision of the presiding officer must be final within 30 days from the date of service, unless within that period, a determination to review is made in accordance with the procedures outlined in ยง 502.227. [Rule 77.]