##### § 416.1555 Withdrawing charges against a representative. #####

Link to an amendment published at 83 FR 30859, July 2, 2018.

The General Counsel or other delegated official may withdraw charges against a representative. We will withdraw charges if the representative files an answer, or we obtain evidence, that satisfies us that we should not suspend or disqualify the representative from acting as a representative. When we consider withdrawing charges brought under § 416.1545(d) or (e) based on the representative's assertion that, before or after our filing of charges, the representative has been reinstated to practice by the court, bar, or Federal program or Federal agency that suspended, disbarred, or disqualified the representative, the General Counsel or other delegated official will determine whether such reinstatement occurred, whether it remains in effect, and whether he or she is reasonably satisfied that the representative will in the future act in accordance with the provisions of section 206(a) of the Act and our rules and regulations. If the representative proves that reinstatement occurred and remains in effect and the General Counsel or other delegated official is so satisfied, the General Counsel or other delegated official will withdraw those charges. The action of the General Counsel or other delegated official regarding withdrawal of charges is solely that of the General Counsel or other delegated official and is not reviewable, or subject to consideration in decisions made under §§ 416.1570 and 416.1590. If we withdraw the charges, we will notify the representative by mail at the representative's last known address.

[76 FR 80248, Dec. 23, 2011]