##### § 1980.471 Liquidation. #####

(See § 1980.64 of subpart A of this part.)

Refer to RD Instruction 1980-E, Appendix G, Liquidation and Property Management Guide (available in any Rural Development office) for advice on how to interact with the lender on liquidations and property management.

(a) Collateral acquired by the lender can only be released after a complete review of the proposal.

(1) There may be instances when the lender acquires the collateral of a business where the cost of liquidation exceeds the potential recovery value of the collection. Whenever this occurs the lender with the concurrence of Rural Development on the collateral in lieu of liquidation.

(2) Sale of acquired collateral to the former borrower, former borrower's stockholder(s) or officer(s), the lender or lender's stockholder(s) or officer(s) must be based on an arm's length transaction with the concurrence of Rural Development.

Administrative

A. The State Director determines which Rural Development personnel will attend meetings with the lender.

B. Introduction to Paragraph XI and Paragraph XI B of the Lender's Agreement. Rural Development will exercise the option to liquidate only when there is reason to believe the lender is not likely to initiate liquidation efforts that will result in maximum recovery. When there is reason to believe the lender will not initiate efforts that will maximize recovery through liquidation, the State Director will forward the lender's liquidation plan, if available with appropriate recommendations, along with the State Director's exceptions to the lender's plan, if any, to the Director, Business and Industry Division, for evaluation and approval or rejection of the State Director's recommendation regarding liquidation. Only when compromise cannot be reached between Rural Development and the lender on the best means of liquidation will Rural Development consider conducting the liquidation. The State Director has no authority to exercise the option to liquidate without National Office approval. When Rural Development liquidates, reasonable liquidation expenses will be assessed against the proceeds derived from the sale of the collateral. In such instances the State Director will send to the Finance Office Form RD 1980-45, “Notice of Liquidation Responsibility.”

C. State Directors are authorized to approve lender liquidation plans as authorized on separate written approval authorities issued in accordance with subpart A of part 1901 of this chapter. Within delegated authorities, the State Director may approve a written partial liquidation plan submitted by the lender covering collateral that must be immediately protected or cared for in order to preserve or maintain its value. Approval of the partial liquidation plan must be in the best interest of the government. The approved partial liquidation plan is only good for those actions necessary to immediately preserve and protect the collateral and must be followed by a complete liquidation plan prepared by the lender in accordance with the requirements of paragraph XII A of the Lender's Agreement.

D. Paragraph XI D. State Directors are responsible for review and acceptance of accounting reports as submitted by lenders and for submission of such reports to lenders when Rural Development is conducting liquidation, after they have been submitted with the State's recommendations to the Director, Business and Industry Division for prior review.

E. Paragraph XI E 2. State Directors are authorized to approve final reports of loss from the lender in separate written approval authorities issued in accordance with subpart A of part 1901 of this chapter. The State Director will submit to the Finance Office for payment any loss claims of the lender on Form RD 103-354 449-30, “Loan Note Guarantee Report of Loss.” The Finance Office forwards loss payment checks to the State Director for delivery to lender. When a loss claim is involved on a particular loan guarantee, ordinarily one “Estimated Loss Report” will be authorized. Only one final “Report of Loss” will be authorized. A final Form RD 449-30 must be filed with the Finance Office at the completion of all liquidations. Finance Office will use this form to close out the account.

F. Paragraph XI E 3. Final loss payments will be made within the 60 days required but only after a review by Rural Development to assure that all collateral for the loan has been properly accounted for and liquidation expenses are reasonable and within approved limits. State Directors are responsible to see that such reviews are accomplished by the State within 30 days and final loss claims in excess of the State Director's approval authority are forwarded to be accepted or otherwise resolved by the Director, Business and Industry Division within the 60-day period. Any estimated loss payments made to the lender must be taken into consideration when paying a final loss on the Rural Development guaranteed loan. The estimated loss payment must be treated as a deduction from the principal amount of the loan and interest cannot be accrued on the principal amount of the loan that is equal to the estimated loss payment. Community and Business Program Chiefs (C&BP), Business and Industry Chiefs or Loan Specialists will conduct such reviews. The State Director may request National Office assistance in the conduct of any review. All reviews for final loss claim in excess of the State Director's approval authority (See subpart A of part 1901 of this Chapter) will be submitted to the National Office, Business and Industry Division, for concurrence prior to the State Director's approval of the claim. Close scrutiny of liquidation proceeds and their application in accordance with lien priorities is required. Before final loss payments are approved and to assist in the required review, the C&BP Chief, B&I Chief or Loan Specialist will prepare a narrative history of the guarantee transaction which will serve as the summary of occurrence which led to failure of the borrower and actions taken to maximize loan recovery. The original of this report will be filed in the loan case file. A copy of this report together with the review of the final loss claim will be included in the material sent to the Director, B&I Division, for review prior to approval of final loss payments.