cfr/title-05-Administrative-Personnel/chapter-I-Office-Personnel-Management/subchapter-B-Civil-Service-Regulations/part-890-Federal-Employees-Health-Benefits-Program/subpart-C-Enrollment/section-890.303.md, before:

##### § 890.303 Continuation of enrollment. #####

Link to an amendment published at 88 FR 20403, Apr. 6, 2023.

(a) *On transfer or retirement.* (1) Except as otherwise provided by this part, the enrollment of an employee or annuitant eligible to continue enrollment continues without change when he or she moves from one employing office to another, without a break in service of more than 3 days, whether the personnel action is designated as a transfer or not.

(2) In order for an employee to continue an enrollment as an annuitant, he or she must meet the participation requirements set forth at 8905(b) of title 5, United States Code, for continuing an enrollment as an annuitant as of the commencing date of his or her annuity or monthly compensation.

(3) For the purpose of this part, an employee is considered to have enrolled at his or her first opportunity if the employee enrolled during the first of the periods set forth in § 890.301 in which he or she was eligible to enroll or was covered at that time by the enrollment of another employee or annuitant, or whose enrollment was effective not later than December 31, 1964.

(4) Enrollment or eligibility for enrollment under subparts H or K of this part of an individual who is not an employee eligible for coverage under other provisions of this part is not considered in determining whether a retiring employee has met the participation requirements of § 8905(b) of title 5, U.S. Code. Coverage under subparts H or K of this part of an individual who is an employee eligible for coverage under other provisions of this part may be considered in determining whether a retiring employee has met the participation requirements.

(b) *Change of enrolled employees to certain excluded positions.* Employees and annuitants enrolled under this part who move, without a break in service or after a separation of 3 days or less, to an employment in which they are excluded by § 890.102(c), continue to be enrolled unless excluded by paragraphs (c)(4), (5), (6), (7), or (9) of § 890.102.

(c) *On death.* The enrollment of a deceased employee or annuitant who is enrolled for self plus one or self and family (as opposed to self only) is transferred automatically to his or her eligible survivor annuitant(s) covered by the enrollment, as applicable. For self and family, the enrollment is considered to be that of:

(1) The survivor annuitant from whose annuity all or the greatest portion of the withholding for health benefits is made; or

(2) The surviving spouse entitled to a basic employee death benefit. The enrollment covers members of the family of the deceased employee or annuitant. In those instances in which the annuity is split among surviving family members, multiple enrollments are allowed. A remarried spouse is not a member of the family of the deceased employee or annuitant unless annuity under section 8341 or 8442 of title 5, United States Code, continues after remarriage.

(d)(1) *Survivor annuitants.* If an employee who is entitled to health benefits coverage as a survivor annuitant elects to enroll or to continue to be enrolled under his eligibility as an employee, and is thereafter separated without entitlement to continued enrollment based on his own service, he is entitled to reinstatement of his employee-acquired enrollment on application to his retirement office. Reinstatement is effective immediately after termination of his employee-acquired enrollment if the application is received by the retirement office within 60 days of separation; otherwise reinstatement is effective on the first day of the first pay period after receipt of the application. The retirement office shall withhold from the annuity that the former employee receives as a survivor annuitant, the amounts necessary to pay his share of the cost of the enrollment.

(2) *Employee becomes a survivor annuitant.* (i) If an employee who is entitled to health benefits coverage as a survivor annuitant elects to enroll or to continue to be enrolled under his or her eligibility as an employee, and is thereafter separated without entitlement to continued enrollment based on his or her own service, the employee is entitled to reinstatement of the enrollment as a survivor annuitant on application to the retirement office. Reinstatement as a survivor annuitant is effective on the day after the termination date of the employee-acquired enrollment if the application is received by the retirement office within 60 days of separation; otherwise, reinstatement is effective on the first day of the first pay period after receipt of the application. The retirement office shall withhold from the annuity that the former employee receives as a survivor annuitant the amounts necessary to pay the health benefits premium.

(ii) If the surviving spouse of a deceased employee or annuitant is enrolled as an employee with a self plus one or self and family enrollment (or, if both the decedent and the surviving spouse were enrolled in a self only or self plus one enrollment) at the time the surviving spouse becomes a survivor annuitant and the surviving spouse is thereafter separated without entitlement to continued enrollment as a retiree, the surviving spouse is entitled to enroll as a survivor annuitant. The change from coverage as an employee to coverage as a survivor annuitant must be made within 30 days of separation from service.

(iii) Except for an employee who meets the definition of former spouse under 5 U.S.C. 8901(10) based on an individual's deferred annuity under 5 U.S.C. 8341(h) or 8445(f), the employee survivor of an annuitant receiving deferred retirement benefits is not eligible for FEHB Program enrollment as a survivor annuitant and therefore may not enroll as a survivor annuitant based on coverage obtained as an employee.

(3) *Insurable interest survivor annuity.* A current spouse who is an insurable interest beneficiary under § 831.606(b) or § 842.605(b) of this title is eligible to continue health benefits enrollment as an insurable interest survivor annuitant so long as he or she was covered as a family member at the time of the annuitant's death. This entitlement applies even if the spouse is eligible for continued enrollment as a survivor annuitant under another section of 5 CFR parts 831 or 843. To prevent dual coverage, the spouse must be covered under only one health benefits enrollment under this part.

(e) *In nonpay status.* (1) Except as otherwise provided by law, the enrollment of an employee continues while he/she is in nonpay status for up to 365 days. The 365 days' nonpay status may be continuous or broken by periods of less than 4 consecutive months in pay status. If an employee has at least 4 consecutive months in pay status after a period of nonpay status he/she is entitled to begin the 365 days' continuation of enrollment anew. For the purposes of this paragraph, 4 consecutive months in pay status means any 4-month period during which the employee is in pay status for at least part of each pay period.

(2) However, in the case of an employee who is employed under an OPM approved career-related work-study program under Schedule D of at least one year's duration and who is expected to be in a pay status during not less than one-third of the total period of time from the date of the first appointment to the completion of the work-study program, his/her enrollment continues while he/she is in nonpay status so long as he/she is participating in the work-study program.

(f) [Reserved]

(g) *Former spouse entitled to coverage as employee or member of family.* An individual entitled to health benefits as a former spouse who also has or becomes entitled to health benefits coverage as a Federal employee or as a family member under another enrollment under this part may defer or suspend coverage as a former spouse and continue his or her coverage as an employee or family member. The former spouse must have established entitlement to the health benefits coverage under § 890.803 of this part and filed all required documents with the employing office responsible for maintaining the former spouse enrollment within the time limits specified in § 890.805 of this part. The employing office shall note in the former spouse's file that the former spouse health benefits enrollment is being deferred or suspended until coverage as a Federal employee or as a family member ends. Upon loss of coverage as a Federal employee or as a family member, the individual is entitled to enroll or resume the enrollment as a former spouse, provided he or she remains eligible as such. A former spouse who enrolls because he or she lost coverage under another enrollment under this part for a reason other than cancellation must meet the requirements of § 890.301(g)(2). A former spouse who enrolls because he or she lost coverage under another enrollment under this part as a result of cancellation of the covering enrollment must meet the requirements of § 890.301(g)(4).

(h) *Temporary continuation of coverage.* Certain former employees who lose coverage because of a separation from Federal service, certain children who lose coverage because they cease to meet the requirements for coverage as children, and certain former spouses who lose coverage because their marriage to the enrollee ends and who are not eligible for coverage under subpart H of this part may elect temporary continuation of coverage under the provisions of subpart K of this part.

(i) *Service in the uniformed services.* (1) The enrollment of an individual who separates, enters military furlough, or is placed in nonpay status to serve in the uniformed services under conditions that entitle him or her to benefits under part 353 of this chapter, or similar authority, may continue for the 24-month period beginning on the date that the employee is placed on leave without pay or separated from service to perform active duty in the uniformed services, provided that the individual continues to be entitled to benefits under part 353 of this chapter, or similar authority. As provided for by 5 U.S.C. 8905(a), the continuation of enrollment for up to 24 months applies to employees called or ordered to active duty in support of a contingency operation on or after September 14, 2001. The enrollment of an employee who met the requirements of chapter 43 of title 38, United States Code, on or after December 10, 2004, may continue for the 24-month period beginning on the date that the employee is placed on leave without pay or separated from service to perform active duty in the uniformed services, provided that the employee continues to be entitled to continued coverage under part 353 of this chapter, or similar authority.

(2) An employee in nonpay status is entitled to continued coverage under paragraph (e) of this section if the employee's entitlement to benefits under part 353 of this chapter, or similar authority, ends before the expiration of 365 days in nonpay status.

(3) If the enrollment of an employee had terminated due to the expiration of 365 days in nonpay status or because of the employee's separation from service, it may be reinstated for the remainder of the 24-month period beginning on the date that the employee is placed on leave without pay or separated from service to perform active duty in the uniformed services, provided that the employee continues to be entitled to continued coverage under part 353 of this chapter, or similar authority.

[33 FR 12510, Sept. 4, 1968]Editorial Note:For Federal Register citations affecting § 890.303, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at *www.govinfo.gov.*

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2023-06-05 issue
Title: 5: Administrative Personnel - Sections changed: 20
Title: 14: Aeronautics and Space - Sections changed: 1
Title: 13: Business Credit and Assistance - Sections changed: 11
Title: 15: Commerce and Foreign Trade - Sections changed: 6
Title: 16: Commercial Practices - Sections changed: 1
Title: 34: Education - Sections changed: 2
Title: 10: Energy - Sections changed: 14
Title: 48: Federal Acquisition Regulations System - Sections changed: 7
Title: 23: Highways - Sections changed: 2
Title: 33: Navigation and Navigable Waters - Sections changed: 1
Title: 36: Parks, Forests, and Public Property - Sections changed: 14
Title: 40: Protection of Environment - Sections changed: 77
Title: 42: Public Health - Sections changed: 80
Title: 46: Shipping - Sections changed: 16
Title: 47: Telecommunication - Sections changed: 12
Title: 49: Transportation - Sections changed: 1
Title: 50: Wildlife and Fisheries - Sections changed: 2

cfr/title-05-Administrative-Personnel/chapter-I-Office-Personnel-Management/subchapter-B-Civil-Service-Regulations/part-890-Federal-Employees-Health-Benefits-Program/subpart-C-Enrollment/section-890.303.md, after:

##### § 890.303 Continuation of enrollment. #####

(a) *On transfer or retirement.* (1) Except as otherwise provided by this part, the enrollment of an employee or annuitant eligible to continue enrollment continues without change when he or she moves from one employing office to another, without a break in service of more than 3 days, whether the personnel action is designated as a transfer or not.

(2) In order for an employee to continue an enrollment as an annuitant, he or she must meet the participation requirements set forth at 8905(b) of title 5, United States Code, for continuing an enrollment as an annuitant as of the commencing date of his or her annuity or monthly compensation.

(3) For the purpose of this part, an employee is considered to have enrolled at his or her first opportunity if the employee enrolled during the first of the periods set forth in § 890.301 in which he or she was eligible to enroll or was covered at that time by the enrollment of another employee or annuitant, or whose enrollment was effective not later than December 31, 1964.

(4) Enrollment or eligibility for enrollment under subparts H or K of this part of an individual who is not an employee eligible for coverage under other provisions of this part is not considered in determining whether a retiring employee has met the participation requirements of § 8905(b) of title 5, U.S. Code. Coverage under subparts H or K of this part of an individual who is an employee eligible for coverage under other provisions of this part may be considered in determining whether a retiring employee has met the participation requirements.

(b) *Change of enrolled employees to certain excluded positions.* Employees and annuitants enrolled under this part who move, without a break in service or after a separation of 3 days or less, to an employment in which they are excluded by § 890.102(c), continue to be enrolled unless excluded by paragraphs (c)(4), (5), (6), (7), or (9) of § 890.102.

(c) *On death.* The enrollment of a deceased employee or annuitant who is enrolled for self plus one or self and family (as opposed to self only) is transferred automatically to his or her eligible survivor annuitant(s) covered by the enrollment, as applicable. For self and family, the enrollment is considered to be that of:

(1) The survivor annuitant from whose annuity all or the greatest portion of the withholding for health benefits is made; or

(2) The surviving spouse entitled to a basic employee death benefit. The enrollment covers members of the family of the deceased employee or annuitant. In those instances in which the annuity is split among surviving family members, multiple enrollments are allowed. A remarried spouse is not a member of the family of the deceased employee or annuitant unless annuity under section 8341 or 8442 of title 5, United States Code, continues after remarriage.

(d)(1) *Survivor annuitants.* If an employee who is entitled to health benefits coverage as a survivor annuitant elects to enroll or to continue to be enrolled under his eligibility as an employee, and is thereafter separated without entitlement to continued enrollment based on his own service, he is entitled to reinstatement of his employee-acquired enrollment on application to his retirement office. Reinstatement is effective immediately after termination of his employee-acquired enrollment if the application is received by the retirement office within 60 days of separation; otherwise reinstatement is effective on the first day of the first pay period after receipt of the application. The retirement office shall withhold from the annuity that the former employee receives as a survivor annuitant, the amounts necessary to pay his share of the cost of the enrollment.

(2) *Employee becomes a survivor annuitant.* (i) If an employee who is entitled to health benefits coverage as a survivor annuitant elects to enroll or to continue to be enrolled under his or her eligibility as an employee, and is thereafter separated without entitlement to continued enrollment based on his or her own service, the employee is entitled to reinstatement of the enrollment as a survivor annuitant on application to the retirement office. Reinstatement as a survivor annuitant is effective on the day after the termination date of the employee-acquired enrollment if the application is received by the retirement office within 60 days of separation; otherwise, reinstatement is effective on the first day of the first pay period after receipt of the application. The retirement office shall withhold from the annuity that the former employee receives as a survivor annuitant the amounts necessary to pay the health benefits premium.

(ii) If the surviving spouse of a deceased employee or annuitant is enrolled as an employee with a self plus one or self and family enrollment (or, if both the decedent and the surviving spouse were enrolled in a self only or self plus one enrollment) at the time the surviving spouse becomes a survivor annuitant and the surviving spouse is thereafter separated without entitlement to continued enrollment as a retiree, the surviving spouse is entitled to enroll as a survivor annuitant. The change from coverage as an employee to coverage as a survivor annuitant must be made within 30 days of separation from service.

(iii) Except for an employee who meets the definition of former spouse under 5 U.S.C. 8901(10) based on an individual's deferred annuity under 5 U.S.C. 8341(h) or 8445(f), the employee survivor of an annuitant receiving deferred retirement benefits is not eligible for FEHB Program enrollment as a survivor annuitant and therefore may not enroll as a survivor annuitant based on coverage obtained as an employee.

(3) *Insurable interest survivor annuity.* A current spouse who is an insurable interest beneficiary under § 831.606(b) or § 842.605(b) of this title is eligible to continue health benefits enrollment as an insurable interest survivor annuitant so long as he or she was covered as a family member at the time of the annuitant's death. This entitlement applies even if the spouse is eligible for continued enrollment as a survivor annuitant under another section of 5 CFR parts 831 or 843. To prevent dual coverage, the spouse must be covered under only one health benefits enrollment under this part.

(e) *In nonpay status.* (1) Except as otherwise provided by law, the enrollment of an employee continues while he/she is in nonpay status for up to 365 days. The 365 days' nonpay status may be continuous or broken by periods of less than 4 consecutive months in pay status. If an employee has at least 4 consecutive months in pay status after a period of nonpay status he/she is entitled to begin the 365 days' continuation of enrollment anew. For the purposes of this paragraph, 4 consecutive months in pay status means any 4-month period during which the employee is in pay status for at least part of each pay period.

(2) However, in the case of an employee who is employed under an OPM approved career-related work-study program under Schedule D of at least one year's duration and who is expected to be in a pay status during not less than one-third of the total period of time from the date of the first appointment to the completion of the work-study program, his/her enrollment continues while he/she is in nonpay status so long as he/she is participating in the work-study program.

(f) [Reserved]

(g) *Former spouse entitled to coverage as employee or member of family.* An individual entitled to health benefits as a former spouse who also has or becomes entitled to health benefits coverage as a Federal employee or as a family member under another enrollment under this part may defer or suspend coverage as a former spouse and continue his or her coverage as an employee or family member. The former spouse must have established entitlement to the health benefits coverage under § 890.803 of this part and filed all required documents with the employing office responsible for maintaining the former spouse enrollment within the time limits specified in § 890.805 of this part. The employing office shall note in the former spouse's file that the former spouse health benefits enrollment is being deferred or suspended until coverage as a Federal employee or as a family member ends. Upon loss of coverage as a Federal employee or as a family member, the individual is entitled to enroll or resume the enrollment as a former spouse, provided he or she remains eligible as such. A former spouse who enrolls because he or she lost coverage under another enrollment under this part for a reason other than cancellation must meet the requirements of § 890.301(g)(2). A former spouse who enrolls because he or she lost coverage under another enrollment under this part as a result of cancellation of the covering enrollment must meet the requirements of § 890.301(g)(4).

(h) *Temporary continuation of coverage.* Certain former employees who lose coverage because of a separation from Federal service, certain children who lose coverage because they cease to meet the requirements for coverage as children, and certain former spouses who lose coverage because their marriage to the enrollee ends and who are not eligible for coverage under subpart H of this part may elect temporary continuation of coverage under the provisions of subpart K of this part.

(i) *Service in the uniformed services.* (1) The enrollment of an individual who separates, enters military furlough, or is placed in nonpay status to serve in the uniformed services under conditions that entitle him or her to benefits under part 353 of this chapter, or similar authority, may continue for the 24-month period beginning on the date that the employee is placed on leave without pay or separated from service to perform active duty in the uniformed services, provided that the individual continues to be entitled to benefits under part 353 of this chapter, or similar authority. As provided for by 5 U.S.C. 8905(a), the continuation of enrollment for up to 24 months applies to employees called or ordered to active duty in support of a contingency operation on or after September 14, 2001. The enrollment of an employee who met the requirements of chapter 43 of title 38, United States Code, on or after December 10, 2004, may continue for the 24-month period beginning on the date that the employee is placed on leave without pay or separated from service to perform active duty in the uniformed services, provided that the employee continues to be entitled to continued coverage under part 353 of this chapter, or similar authority.

(2) An employee in nonpay status is entitled to continued coverage under paragraph (e) of this section if the employee's entitlement to benefits under part 353 of this chapter, or similar authority, ends before the expiration of 365 days in nonpay status.

(3) If the enrollment of an employee had terminated due to the expiration of 365 days in nonpay status or because of the employee's separation from service, it may be reinstated for the remainder of the 24-month period beginning on the date that the employee is placed on leave without pay or separated from service to perform active duty in the uniformed services, provided that the employee continues to be entitled to continued coverage under part 353 of this chapter, or similar authority.

(j) *On transfer to or from Postal Service.* The eligibility of a Postal Service employee to continue enrollment under 5 U.S.C. chapter 89 continues without change when they move from the Postal Service to another employing office, without a break in service of more than 3 days, whether the personnel action is designated as a transfer or not. In such a circumstance they may no longer enroll in a PSHB plan under subpart P of this part, and they may only enroll in an FEHB plan. The eligibility of an employee or annuitant to continue enrollment under 5 U.S.C. chapter 89 continues without change when they move from another employing office to the Postal Service, without a break in service of more than 3 days, whether the personnel action is designated as a transfer or not; however, they may no longer enroll in an FEHB plan, and they may only enroll in a PSHB plan under subpart P.

[33 FR 12510, Sept. 4, 1968]Editorial Note:For Federal Register citations affecting § 890.303, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at *www.govinfo.gov.*
