##### ยง 390.356 Bonds for directors, officers, employees, and agents; form of and amount of bonds. #####

(a) Each State savings association shall maintain fidelity bond coverage. The bond shall cover each director, officer, employee, and agent who has control over or access to cash, securities, or other property of the State savings association.

(b) The amount of coverage to be required for each State savings association shall be determined by the association's management, based on its assessment of the level that would be safe and sound in view of the association's potential exposure to risk; provided, such determination shall be subject to approval by the association's board of directors.

(c) Each State savings association may maintain bond coverage in addition to that provided by the insurance underwriter industry's standard forms, through the use of endorsements, riders, or other forms of supplemental coverage, if, in the judgment of the State savings association's board of directors, additional coverage is warranted.

(d) The board of directors of each State savings association shall formally approve the State savings association's bond coverage. In deciding whether to approve the bond coverage, the board shall review the adequacy of the standard coverage and the need for supplemental coverage. Documentation of the board's approval shall be included as a part of the minutes of the meeting at which the board approves coverage. Additionally, the board of directors shall review the State savings association's bond coverage at least annually to assess the continuing adequacy of coverage.