##### § 93.505 Certificate for swine. #####

(a) All swine offered for importation from any part of the world except as provided in § 93.517 shall be accompanied by a certificate of a salaried veterinary officer of the national government of the region of origin, or if exported from Mexico, shall be accompanied either by such a certificate or by a certificate issued by a veterinarian accredited by the National Government of Mexico and endorsed by a full-time salaried veterinary officer of the National Government of Mexico, thereby representing that the veterinarian issuing the certificate was authorized to do so, stating that such swine have been kept in said region at least 60 days immediately preceding the date of movement therefrom and that said region during such period has been entirely free from foot-and-mouth disease, rinderpest, contagious pleuropneumonia, and surra: *Provided, however,* That certificates for wild swine for exhibition purposes need specify freedom from the said diseases of the district of origin only: *And provided further,* That in the case of swine the certificate, as far as it relates to contagious pleuropneumonia, may specify freedom from such disease of the district of origin only. For domestic swine, the certificate shall also show that the entire region of origin is free of African swine fever and swine vesicular disease and that, for 60 days immediately preceding the time of movement from the premises of origin, no swine erysipelas or swine plague has existed on such premises or on adjoining premises. Additionally, except for the APHIS-defined European CSF region, as defined in § 94.0 of this subchapter, for which additional certification is required under § 94.24(b)(6), for domestic swine the certificate shall show that the entire region of origin is free of classical swine fever.

(b) Swine from any region where screwworm is considered to exist may only be imported into the United States if they meet the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(4) of this section and all other applicable requirements of this part. APHIS will maintain a list of regions where screwworm is considered to exist on the APHIS Web site at *http://www.aphis.usda.gov/import\_export/animals/animal\_disease\_status.shtml.* Copies of the list will also be available via postal mail, fax, or email upon request to the Sanitary Trade Issues Team, National Center for Import and Export, Veterinary Services, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, 4700 River Road Unit 38, Riverdale, Maryland 20737. APHIS will add a region to the list upon determining that screwworm exists in the region based on reports APHIS receives of detections of the pest from veterinary officials of the exporting country, from the World Organization for Animal Health (OIE), or from other sources the Administrator determines to be reliable. APHIS will remove a region from the list after conducting an evaluation of the region in accordance with § 92.2 of this subchapter and finding that screwworm is not present in the region. In the case of a region formerly not on this list that is added due to a detection, the region may be removed from the list in accordance with the procedures for reestablishment of a region's disease-free status in § 92.4 of this subchapter.

(1) A veterinarian must treat the swine with ivermectin 3 to 5 days prior to the date of export to the United States according to the recommended dose prescribed on the product's label.

(2) The swine must be fully examined for screwworm by a full-time salaried veterinary official of the exporting country within 24 hours prior to shipment to the United States. If swine are found to be infested with screwworm, they must be treated until free from infestation.

(3) At the time swine are loaded onto a means of conveyance for export, a veterinarian must treat any visible wounds on the animals with a solution of coumaphos dust at a concentration of 5 percent active ingredient.

(4) The swine must be accompanied to the United States by a certificate signed by a full-time salaried veterinary official of the exporting country. The certificate must state that the swine have been thoroughly examined and found free of screwworm and that the swine have been treated in accordance with paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(3) of this section.

(c) If swine are unaccompanied by the certificate as required by paragraph (a) of this section, or if such swine are found upon inspection at the port of entry to be affected with a communicable disease or to have been exposed thereto, they shall be refused entry and shall be handled or quarantined, or otherwise disposed of as the Administrator may direct.

(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0165)[55 FR 31495, Aug. 2, 1990, as amended at 57 FR 28081, June 24, 1992. Redesignated and amended at 62 FR 56012, 56020, Oct. 28, 1997; 65 FR 67623, Nov. 13, 2000; 67 FR 11565, Mar. 15, 2002; 68 FR 6344, Feb. 7, 2003; 68 FR 16938, Apr. 7, 2003; 71 FR 29070, May 19, 2006; 71 FR 31069, June 1, 2006; 72 FR 67232, Nov. 28, 2007; 73 FR 50878, Aug. 29, 2008; 76 FR 70039, Nov. 10, 2011; 77 FR 1391, Jan. 10, 2012]