cfr/title-31-Money-Finance-Treasury/subtitle-B-Regulations-Relating-Money-Finance/chapter-V-Office-Foreign-Assets-Control-Department-Treasury/part-536-Narcotics-Trafficking-Sanctions-Regulations/subpart-B-Prohibitions/section-536.201.md, before:

##### § 536.201 Prohibited transactions. #####

(a) All property and interests in property that are in the United States, that come within the United States, or that are or come within the possession or control of any U.S. person, of a specially designated narcotics trafficker are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in.

(b) The prohibitions in paragraph (a) of this section include prohibitions on the following transactions:

(1) The making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, other than donations of articles, such as food, clothing, and medicine, intended to be used to relieve human suffering; and

(2) The receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.

(c) Unless authorized by this part or by a specific license expressly referring to this part, any dealing in securities (or evidence thereof) held within the possession or control of a U.S. person and either registered or inscribed in the name of, or known to be held for the benefit of, or issued by, a specially designated narcotics trafficker is prohibited. This prohibition includes the transfer (including the transfer on the books of any issuer or agent thereof), disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of, or the endorsement or guaranty of signatures on, any securities on or after the effective date. This prohibition applies irrespective of the fact that at any time (whether prior to, on, or subsequent to the effective date) the registered or inscribed owner of any such securities may have or might appear to have assigned, transferred, or otherwise disposed of the securities.

(d) The prohibitions in paragraph (a) of this section apply except to the extent provided by regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this part, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date.

Note 1 to § 536.201:

*See* § 536.312 and the notes to that section for the definition and information about the public listing of specially designated narcotics traffickers and OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List). *See* § 536.312(d) concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to this section.

Note 2 to § 536.201:

Sections 501.806 and 501.807 of this chapter describe the procedures to be followed by persons seeking, respectively, the unblocking of funds that they believe were blocked due to mistaken identity, and administrative reconsideration of their status as persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this section.

[86 FR 26663, May 17, 2021]

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2024-09-17 issue
Title: 7: Agriculture - Sections changed: 1
Title: 10: Energy - Sections changed: 1
Title: 2: Federal Financial Assistance - Sections changed: 6
Title: 21: Food and Drugs - Sections changed: 1
Title: 26: Internal Revenue - Sections changed: 38
Title: 31: Money and Finance: Treasury - Sections changed: 36
Title: 40: Protection of Environment - Sections changed: 3
Title: 42: Public Health - Sections changed: 2
Title: 46: Shipping - Sections changed: 41
Title: 47: Telecommunication - Sections changed: 1
Title: 49: Transportation - Sections changed: 2
Title: 50: Wildlife and Fisheries - Sections changed: 1

cfr/title-31-Money-Finance-Treasury/subtitle-B-Regulations-Relating-Money-Finance/chapter-V-Office-Foreign-Assets-Control-Department-Treasury/part-536-Narcotics-Trafficking-Sanctions-Regulations/subpart-B-Prohibitions/section-536.201.md, after:

##### § 536.201 Prohibited transactions. #####

(a) All property and interests in property that are in the United States, that come within the United States, or that are or come within the possession or control of any U.S. person, of a specially designated narcotics trafficker are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in.

(b) The prohibitions in paragraph (a) of this section include prohibitions on the following transactions:

(1) The making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, other than donations of articles, such as food, clothing, and medicine, intended to be used to relieve human suffering; and

(2) The receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.

(c) Unless authorized by this part or by a specific license expressly referring to this part, any dealing in securities (or evidence thereof) held within the possession or control of a U.S. person and either registered or inscribed in the name of, or known to be held for the benefit of, or issued by, a specially designated narcotics trafficker is prohibited. This prohibition includes the transfer (including the transfer on the books of any issuer or agent thereof), disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of, or the endorsement or guaranty of signatures on, any securities on or after the effective date. This prohibition applies irrespective of the fact that at any time (whether prior to, on, or subsequent to the effective date) the registered or inscribed owner of any such securities may have or might appear to have assigned, transferred, or otherwise disposed of the securities.

(d) The prohibitions in paragraph (a) of this section apply except to the extent provided by regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this part, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date.

Note 1 to § 536.201:

*See* § 536.312 and the notes to that section for the definition and information about the public listing of specially designated narcotics traffickers and OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List). *See* § 536.312(d) concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to this section.

Note 2 to § 536.201:

Subpart E of part 501 of this chapter describes the procedures to be followed for the release of property and interests in property blocked pursuant to this section, including funds blocked due to mistaken identity or typographical or similar errors, and for administrative reconsideration of one's status as a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.

[86 FR 26663, May 17, 2021, as amended at 89 FR 75958, Sept. 17, 2024]
