##### ยง 3050.21 Content of the Postal Service's section 3652 report. #####

(a) No later than 90 days after the close of each fiscal year, the Postal Service shall submit a report to the Commission analyzing its cost, volume, revenue, rate, and service information in sufficient detail to demonstrate that all products during such year comply with all applicable provisions of title 39 of the United States Code. The report shall provide the items in paragraphs (b) through (j) of this section.

(b) The volume and revenue generated by each product;

(c) The attributable costs of, and the contribution to institutional costs made by, each product;

(d) The quality of service received by each market dominant product, including the speed of delivery and the reliability of delivery;

(e) For each market dominant workshare discount offered during the reporting year:

(1) The per-item cost avoided by the Postal Service by virtue of such discount;

(2) The percentage of such per-item cost avoided that the per-item workshare discount represents;

(3) The per-item contribution made to institutional costs; and

(4) The factual and analytical bases for its conclusion that one or more of the exception provisions of 39 U.S.C. 3622(e)(2)(A) through (D) apply.

(f) For each market dominant negotiated service agreement:

(1) Identify its rates and service features;

(2) Estimate its costs, volumes, and revenues;

(3) Analyze its effect on the operational performance of the Postal Service, specifying the affected operations and, to the extent possible, quantifying the effect;

(4) Analyze the contribution of the agreement to institutional costs for its most recent year of operation. The year analyzed shall end on the anniversary of the negotiated service agreement that falls within the fiscal year covered by the Postal Service's annual periodic reports to the Commission and include the 12 preceding months. The analysis shall show all calculations and fully identify all inputs. Inputs used to estimate the effect on total contribution to the Postal Service, such as unit costs and price elasticities, shall be updated using fiscal year values; and

(5) Analyze the effect of the negotiated service agreement (and other functionally equivalent negotiated service agreements) on the marketplace. If there were harmful effects, explain why those effects were not unreasonable.

(g) For each competitive negotiated service agreement:

(1) Identify its rates and service features; and

(2) Estimate its costs, volumes, and revenues.

(h) For market tests of experimental products:

(1) Estimate their costs, volumes, and revenues individually, and in aggregate, by market dominant and by competitive product group;

(2) Estimate the quality of service of each individual experimental product; and

(3) Indicate whether offering the experimental product has created an inappropriate competitive advantage for the Postal Service or any mailer.

(i) For each nonpostal service, estimate its costs, volumes, and revenues; and

(j) Provide any other information that the Postal Service believes will help the Commission evaluate the Postal Service's compliance with the applicable provisions of title 39 of the United States Code.