cfr/title-16-Commercial-Practices/chapter-I-Federal-Trade-Commission/subchapter-C-Regulations-Under-Specific-Acts-Congress/part-305-Energy-Water-Use-Labeling-Consumer-Products-Under-Energy-Policy-Conservation-Act-Energy-Labeling-Rule/subjectgroup-ECFR7ac53ed12114115-Testing/section-305.8.md, before:

##### § 305.8 Submission of data. #####

Link to an amendment published at 83 FR 7596, Feb. 22, 2018.

(a)(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (a)(2) through (4) of this section, each manufacturer of a covered product subject to the disclosure requirements of this part and subject to Department of Energy certification requirements in 10 CFR part 429 shall submit annually a report for each model in current production containing the same information that must be submitted to the Department of Energy pursuant to 10 CFR part 429 for that product, and that the Department has identified as public information pursuant to 10 CFR part 429. In lieu of submitting the required information to the Commission as required by this section, manufacturers may submit such information to the Department of Energy via the CCMS at *https://regulations.doe.gov/ccms* as provided by 10 CFR 429.12.

(2) Manufacturers of ceiling fans shall submit annually a report containing the brand name, model number, diameter (in inches), wattage excluding any lights, airflow (capacity) for each basic model in current production, and starting serial number, date code or other means of identifying the date of manufacture with the first submission for each basic model. In lieu of submitting the required information to the Commission as required by this section, manufacturers may submit such information to the Department of Energy via the Compliance and Certification Management System (CCMS) at *https://regulations.doe.gov/ccms* as provided by 10 CFR 429.12.

(3) Manufacturers of televisions shall submit annually a report containing the brand name; model number; screen size (diagonal in inches); power (in watts) consumed in on mode, standby-passive mode, in standby-active mode, low mode, and off mode; and annual energy consumption (kWh/year) for each basic model in current production. The report should also include a starting serial number, date code, or other means of identifying the date of manufacture with the first submission for each basic model. In lieu of submitting the required information to the Commission as required by this section, manufacturers may submit such information to the Department of Energy via the Compliance and Certification Management System (CCMS) at *https://regulations.doe.gov/ccms* as provided by 10 CFR 429.12.

(4) This section does not require reports for general service light-emitting diode (LED or OLED) lamps or specialty consumer lamps.

(5) After September 15, 2017, manufacturers must begin submitting a Web site address for the online EnergyGuide labels covered by § 305.6(a) in new model and annual reports required by this section. Manufacturers may accomplish this by either submitting a specific link to a URL for each label, a link to a PDF download for each label, or a link to a Web site that takes users directly to a searchable database of the covered labels from which the label image or download may be accessed using the model number as certified to DOE pursuant to 10 CFR part 429 and the model number advertised in product literature. Such label information must be submitted either at the time the model is certified to DOE pursuant to 10 CFR part 429 or at some time on or before the annual report date immediately following such certification. In lieu of submitting the required information to the Commission, manufacturers may submit such information to the Department of Energy via the CCMS at *https://regulations.doe.gov/ccms* as provided by 10 CFR 429.12. The requirements in this paragraph do not apply to Lighting Facts labels.

(b)(1) All data required by § 305.8(a) except serial numbers shall be submitted to the Commission annually, on or before the following dates:

|          Product category           |Deadline  <br/>for data  <br/>submission|
|-------------------------------------|----------------------------------------|
|            Refrigerators            |                 Aug. 1                 |
|       Refrigerators-freezers        |                 Aug. 1                 |
|              Freezers               |                 Aug. 1                 |
|      Central air conditioners       |                 July 1                 |
|             Heat pumps              |                 July 1                 |
|             Dishwashers             |                 June 1                 |
|            Water heaters            |                 May 1                  |
|        Room air conditioners        |                 July 1                 |
|              Furnaces               |                 May 1                  |
|            Pool heaters             |                 May 1                  |
|           Clothes washers           |                 Oct. 1                 |
|      Fluorescent lamp ballasts      |                 Mar. 1                 |
|             Showerheads             |                 Mar. 1                 |
|               Faucets               |                 Mar. 1                 |
|            Water closets            |                 Mar. 1                 |
|            Ceiling fans             |                 Mar. 1                 |
|               Urinals               |                 Mar. 1                 |
|     Metal halide lamp fixtures      |                Sept. 1                 |
|  General service fluorescent lamps  |                 Mar. 1                 |
|Medium base compact fluorescent lamps|                 Mar. 1                 |
| General service incandescent lamps  |                 Mar. 1                 |
|             Televisions             |                 June 1                 |

(2) All revisions to such data (both additions to and deletions from the preceding data) shall be submitted to the Commission as part of the next annual report period.

(c) All information required by paragraph (a) of this section must be submitted for new models prior to any distribution of such model. Models subject to design or retrofit alterations which change the data contained in any annual report shall be reported in the manner required for new models. Models which are discontinued shall be reported in the next annual report.

[52 FR 46894, Dec. 10, 1987, as amended at 54 FR 28035, July 5, 1989; 59 FR 54965, Oct. 25, 1993; 59 FR 49564, Sept. 28, 1994; 59 FR 67527, Dec. 29, 1994; 60 FR 14210, Mar. 16, 1995; 67 FR 35008, May 17, 2002; 68 FR 8449, Feb. 21, 2003; 73 FR 63067, Oct. 23, 2008; 75 FR 41714, July 19, 2010; 76 FR 1050, Jan. 6, 2011; 78 FR 2208, Jan. 10, 2013; 79 FR 19467, Apr. 9, 2014; 80 FR 67299, Nov. 2, 2015; 81 FR 63646, Sept. 15, 2106]

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2018-05-23 issue
Title: 16: Commercial Practices - Sections changed: 23
Title: 18: Conservation of Power and Water Resources - Sections changed: 2
Title: 26: Internal Revenue - Sections changed: 7
Title: 31: Money and Finance: Treasury - Sections changed: 2
Title: 36: Parks, Forests, and Public Property - Sections changed: 1
Title: 40: Protection of Environment - Sections changed: 3

cfr/title-16-Commercial-Practices/chapter-I-Federal-Trade-Commission/subchapter-C-Regulations-Under-Specific-Acts-Congress/part-305-Energy-Water-Use-Labeling-Consumer-Products-Under-Energy-Policy-Conservation-Act-Energy-Labeling-Rule/subjectgroup-ECFR7ac53ed12114115-Testing/section-305.8.md, after:

##### § 305.8 Submission of data. #####

(a)(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (a)(2) through (4) of this section, each manufacturer of a covered product subject to the disclosure requirements of this part and subject to Department of Energy certification requirements in 10 CFR part 429 shall submit annually a report for each model in current production containing the same information that must be submitted to the Department of Energy pursuant to 10 CFR part 429 for that product, and that the Department has identified as public information pursuant to 10 CFR part 429. In lieu of submitting the required information to the Commission as required by this section, manufacturers may submit such information to the Department of Energy via the CCMS at *https://regulations.doe.gov/ccms* as provided by 10 CFR 429.12.

(2) Manufacturers of ceiling fans shall submit annually a report containing the brand name, model number, diameter (in inches), wattage excluding any lights, airflow (capacity) for each basic model in current production, and starting serial number, date code or other means of identifying the date of manufacture with the first submission for each basic model. In lieu of submitting the required information to the Commission as required by this section, manufacturers may submit such information to the Department of Energy via the Compliance and Certification Management System (CCMS) at *https://regulations.doe.gov/ccms* as provided by 10 CFR 429.12.

(3) Manufacturers of televisions shall submit annually a report containing the brand name; model number; screen size (diagonal in inches); power (in watts) consumed in on mode, standby-passive mode, in standby-active mode, low mode, and off mode; and annual energy consumption (kWh/year) for each basic model in current production. The report should also include a starting serial number, date code, or other means of identifying the date of manufacture with the first submission for each basic model. In lieu of submitting the required information to the Commission as required by this section, manufacturers may submit such information to the Department of Energy via the Compliance and Certification Management System (CCMS) at *https://regulations.doe.gov/ccms* as provided by 10 CFR 429.12.

(4) This section does not require reports for general service light-emitting diode (LED or OLED) lamps or specialty consumer lamps.

(5) After September 15, 2017, manufacturers must begin submitting a Web site address for the online EnergyGuide labels covered by § 305.6(a) in new model and annual reports required by this section. Manufacturers may accomplish this by either submitting a specific link to a URL for each label, a link to a PDF download for each label, or a link to a Web site that takes users directly to a searchable database of the covered labels from which the label image or download may be accessed using the model number as certified to DOE pursuant to 10 CFR part 429 and the model number advertised in product literature. Such label information must be submitted either at the time the model is certified to DOE pursuant to 10 CFR part 429 or at some time on or before the annual report date immediately following such certification. In lieu of submitting the required information to the Commission, manufacturers may submit such information to the Department of Energy via the CCMS at *https://regulations.doe.gov/ccms* as provided by 10 CFR 429.12. The requirements in this paragraph do not apply to Lighting Facts labels.

(b)(1) All data required by § 305.8(a) except serial numbers shall be submitted to the Commission annually, on or before the following dates:

|          Product category           |Deadline  <br/>for data  <br/>submission|
|-------------------------------------|----------------------------------------|
|            Refrigerators            |                 Aug. 1                 |
|       Refrigerators-freezers        |                 Aug. 1                 |
|              Freezers               |                 Aug. 1                 |
|      Central air conditioners       |                 July 1                 |
|             Heat pumps              |                 July 1                 |
|             Dishwashers             |                 June 1                 |
|            Water heaters            |                 May 1                  |
|        Room air conditioners        |                 July 1                 |
|              Furnaces               |                 May 1                  |
|            Pool heaters             |                 May 1                  |
|           Clothes washers           |                 Oct. 1                 |
|      Fluorescent lamp ballasts      |                 Mar. 1                 |
|             Showerheads             |                 Mar. 1                 |
|               Faucets               |                 Mar. 1                 |
|            Water closets            |                 Mar. 1                 |
|            Ceiling fans             |                 Mar. 1                 |
|               Urinals               |                 Mar. 1                 |
|     Metal halide lamp fixtures      |                Sept. 1                 |
|  General service fluorescent lamps  |                 Mar. 1                 |
|Medium base compact fluorescent lamps|                 Mar. 1                 |
| General service incandescent lamps  |                 Mar. 1                 |
|             Televisions             |                 June 1                 |

(2) All revisions to such data (both additions to and deletions from the preceding data) shall be submitted to the Commission as part of the next annual report period.

(c) All information required by paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section must be submitted for new models prior to any distribution of such model. Models subject to design or retrofit alterations which change the data contained in any annual report shall be reported in the manner required for new models. Models which are discontinued shall be reported in the next annual report.

[52 FR 46894, Dec. 10, 1987]Editorial Note:For Federal Register citations affecting § 305.8, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at *www.govinfo.gov.*
