##### § 96.130 Incorporation by reference. #####

(a) The Director of the Federal Register approves certain material that is incorporated by reference into this subpart under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. To enforce any edition other than that specified in paragraph (b) of this section, the Coast Guard must publish notice of the change in the Federal Register and the material must be available to the public. You may inspect all material at the Coast Guard Headquarters. Contact Commandant (CG-ENG), Attn: Office of Design and Engineering Standards, U.S. Coast Guard Stop 7509, 2703 Martin Luther King Jr. Avenue SE., Washington, DC 20593-7509. The material is also available at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) and from the source listed in paragraph (b) of this section. For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal\_register/code\_of\_federal\_regulations/ibr\_locations.html.*

(b) The material approved for incorporation by reference in this subpart and the sections affected are as follows:

*American National Standards Institute (ANSI)*—11 West 42nd St., New York, NY 10036.ANSI/ASQC Q9001-1994, Quality Systems—Model for Quality Assurance in Design, Development, Production, Installation, and Servicing, 1994—96.430*International Maritime Organization IMO*—4 Albert Embankment, London, SE1 7SR, United Kingdom.Resolution A.741(18), International Management Code for the Safe Operation of Ships and for Pollution Prevention, November 4, 1993—96.220, 96.370Resolution A.788 (19), Guidelines on Implementation of the International Safety Management (ISM) Code by Administrations, November 23, 1995—96.320, 96.440Resolution A.739(18), Guidelines for the Authorization of Organizations Acting on Behalf of the Administration, November 4, 1993—96.440[CGD 95-073, 62 FR 67506, Dec. 24, 1997, as amended at 69 FR 18803, Apr. 9, 2004]