##### § 1.852-10 Distributions in redemption of interests in unit investment trusts. #####

(a) *In general.* In computing that part of the excess of its net long-term capital gain over net short-term capital loss on which it must pay a capital gains tax, a regulated investment company is allowed under section 852(b)(3)(A)(ii) a deduction for dividends paid (as defined in section 561) determined with reference to capital gains dividends only. Section 561(b) provides that in determining the deduction for dividends paid, the rules provided in section 562 are applicable. Section 562(c) (relating to preferential dividends) provides that the amount of any distribution shall not be considered as a dividend unless such distribution is pro-rata, with no preference to any share of stock as compared with other shares of the same class except to the extent that the former is entitled to such preference.

(b) *Redemption distributions made by unit investment trust*—(1) *In general.* Where a unit investment trust (as defined in paragraph (c) of this section) liquidates part of its portfolio represented by shares in a management company in order to make a distribution to a holder of an interest in the trust in redemption of part or all of such interest, and by so doing, the trust realizes net long-term capital gain, that portion of the distribution by the trust which is equal to the amount of the net long-term capital gain realized by the trust on the liquidation of the shares in the management company will not be considered a preferential dividend under section 562(c). For example, where the entire amount of net long-term capital gain realized by the trust on such a liquidation is distributed to the redeeming interest holder, the trust will be allowed the entire amount of net long-term capital gain so realized in determining the deduction under section 852(b)(3)(A)(ii) for dividends paid determined with reference to capital gains dividends only. This paragraph and section 852(d) shall apply only with respect to the capital gain net income (net capital gain for taxable years beginning before January 1, 1977) realized by the trust which is attributable to a redemption by a holder of an interest in such trust. Such dividend may be designated as a capital gain dividend by a written notice to the certificate holder. Such designation should clearly indicate to the holder that the holder's gain or loss on the redemption of the certificate may differ from such designated amount, depending upon the holder's basis for the redeemed certificate, and that the holder's own records are to be used in computing the holder's gain or loss on the redemption of the certificate.

(2) *Example.* The application of the provisions of this paragraph may be illustrated by the following example:

Example.B entered into a periodic payment plan contract with X as custodian and Z as plan sponsor under which he purchased a plan certificate of X. Under this contract, upon B's demand, X must redeem B's certificate at a price substantially equal to the value of the number of shares in Y, a management company, which are credited to B's account by X in connection with the unit investment trust. Except for a small amount of cash which X is holding to satisfy liabilities and to invest for other plan certificate holders, all of the assets held by X in connection with the trust consist of shares in Y. Pursuant to the terms of the periodic payment plan contract, 100 shares of Y are credited to B's account. Both X and Y have elected to be treated as regulated investment companies. On March 1, 1965, B notified X that he wished to have his entire interest in the unit investment trust redeemed. In order to redeem B's interest, X caused Y to redeem 100 shares of Y which X held. At the time of redemption, each share of Y had a value of $15. X then distributed the $1,500 to B. X's basis for each of the Y shares which was redeemed was $10. Therefore, X realized a long-term capital gain of $500 ($5 × 100 shares) which is attributable to the redemption by B of his interest in the trust. Under section 852(d), the $500 capital gain distributed to B will not be considered a preferential dividend. Therefore, X is allowed a deduction of $500 under section 852(b)(3)(A)(ii) for dividends paid determined with reference to capital gains dividends only, with the result that X will not pay a capital gains tax with respect to such amount.

(c) *Definition of unit investment trust.* A unit investment trust to which paragraph (a) of this section refers is a business arrangement which—

(1) Is registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 as a unit investment trust;

(2) Issues periodic payment plan certificates (as defined in such Act);

(3) Possesses, as substantially all of its assets, securities issued by a management company (as defined in such Act);

(4) Qualifies as a regulated investment company under section 851; and

(5) Complies with the requirements provided for by section 852(a).

Paragraph (a) of this section does not apply to a unit investment trust described in section 851(f)(1) and paragraph (d) of § 1.851-7.[T.D. 6921, 32 FR 8755, June 20, 1967, as amended by T.D. 7187, 37 FR 13527, July 6, 1972; T.D. 7728, 45 FR 72650, Nov. 3, 1980]