##### § 1.855-1 Dividends paid by regulated investment company after close of taxable year. #####

(a) *General rule.* In—

(1) Determining under section 852(a) and paragraph (a) of § 1.852-1 whether the deduction for dividends paid during the taxable year (without regard to capital gain dividends) by a regulated investment company equals or exceeds 90 percent of its investment company taxable income (determined without regard to the provisions of section 852(b)(2)(D)),

(2) Computing its investment company taxable income (under section 852(b)(2) and § 1.852-3), and

(3) Determining the amount of capital gain dividends (as defined in section 852(b)(3) and paragraph (c) of § 1.852-4 paid during the taxable year, any dividend (or portion thereof) declared by the investment company either before or after the close of the taxable year but in any event before the time prescribed by law for the filing of its return for the taxable year (including the period of any extension of time granted for filing such return) shall, to the extent the company so elects in such return, be treated as having been paid during such taxable year. This rule is applicable only if the entire amount of such dividend is actually distributed to the shareholders in the 12-month period following the close of such taxable year and not later than the date of the first regular dividend payment made after such declaration.

(b) *Election*—(1) *Method of making election.* The election must be made in the return filed by the company for the taxable year. The election shall be made by the taxpayer (the regulated investment company) by treating the dividend (or portion thereof) to which such election applies as a dividend paid during the taxable year in computing its investment company taxable income, or if the dividend (or portion thereof) to which such election applies is to be designated by the company as a capital gain dividend, in computing the amount of capital gain dividends paid during such taxable year. The election provided in section 855(a) may be made only to the extent that the earnings and profits of the taxable year (computed with the application of section 852(c) and § 1.852-5) exceed the total amount of distributions out of such earnings and profits actually made during the taxable year (not including distributions with respect to which an election has been made for a prior year under section 855(a)). The dividend or portion thereof, with respect to which the regulated investment company has made a valid election under section 855(a), shall be considered as paid out of the earnings and profits of the taxable year for which such election is made, and not out of the earnings and profits of the taxable year in which the distribution is actually made.

(2) *Irrevocability of the election.* After the expiration of the time for filing the return for the taxable year for which an election is made under section 855(a), such election shall be irrevocable with respect to the dividend or portion thereof to which it applies.

(c) *Receipt by shareholders.* Under section 855(b), the dividend or portion thereof, with respect to which a valid election has been made, will be includible in the gross income of the shareholders of the regulated investment company for the taxable year in which the dividend is received by them.

(d) *Examples.* The application of paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section may be illustrated by the following examples:

Example 1.The X Company, a regulated investment company, had taxable income (and earnings or profits) for the calendar year 1954 of $100,000. During that year the company distributed to shareholders taxable dividends aggregating $88,000. On March 10, 1955, the company declared a dividend of $37,000 payable to shareholders on March 20, 1955. Such dividend consisted of the first regular quarterly dividend for 1955 of $25,000 plus an additional $12,000 representing that part of the taxable income for 1954 which was not distributed in 1954. On March 15, 1955, the X Company filed its federal income tax return and elected therein to treat $12,000 of the total dividend of $37,000 to be paid to shareholders on March 20, 1955, as having been paid during the taxable year 1954. Assuming that the X Company actually distributed the entire amount of the dividend of $37,000 on March 20, 1955, an amount equal to $12,000 thereof will be treated for the purposes of section 852(a) as having been paid during the taxable year 1954. Such amount ($12,000) will be considered by the X Company as a distribution out of the earnings and profits for the taxable year 1954, and will be treated by the shareholders as a taxable dividend for the taxable year in which such distribution is received by them.Example 2.The Y Company, a regulated investment company, had taxable income (and earnings or profits) for the calendar year 1954 of $100,000, and for 1955 taxable income (and earnings or profits) of $125,000. On January 1, 1954, the company had a deficit in its earnings and profits accumulated since February 28, 1913, of $115,000. During the year 1954 the company distributed to shareholders taxable dividends aggregating $85,000. On March 5, 1955, the company declared a dividend of $65,000 payable to shareholders on March 31, 1955. On March 15, 1955, the Y Company filed its federal income tax return in which it included $40,000 of the total dividend of $65,000 payable to shareholders on March 31, 1955, as a dividend paid by it during the taxable year 1954. On March 31, 1955, the Y Company distributed the entire amount of the dividend of $65,000 declared on March 5, 1955. The election under section 855(a) is valid only to the extent of $15,000, the amount of the undistributed earnings and profits for 1954 ($100,000 earnings and profits less $85,000 distributed during 1954). The remainder ($50,000) of the $65,000 dividend paid on March 31, 1955, could not be the subject of an election, and such amount will be regarded as a distribution by the Y Company out of earnings and profits for the taxable year 1955. Assuming that the only other distribution by the Y Company during 1955 was a distribution of $75,000 paid as a dividend on October 31, 1955, the total amount of the distribution of $65,000 paid on March 31, 1955, is to be treated by the shareholders as taxable dividends for the taxable year in which such dividend is received. The Y Company will treat the amount of $15,000 as a distribution of the earnings or profits of the company for the taxable year 1954, and the remaining $50,000 as a distribution of the earnings or profits for the year 1955. The distribution of $75,000 on October 31, 1955, is, of course, a taxable dividend out of the earnings and profits for the year 1955.

(e) *Notice to shareholders.* Section 855(c) provides that in the case of dividends, with respect to which a regulated investment company has made an election under section 855(a), any notice to shareholders required under subchapter M, chapter 1 of the Code, with respect to such amounts, shall be made not later than 45 days (30 days for a taxable year ending before February 26, 1964) after the close of the taxable year in which the distribution is made. Thus, the notice requirements of section 852(b)(3)(C) and paragraph (c) of § 1.852-4 with respect to capital gain dividends, section 853(c) and § 1.853-3 with respect to allowance to shareholder of foreign tax credit, and section 854(b)(2) and § 1.854-2 with respect to the amount of a distribution which may be treated as a dividend, may be satisfied with respect to amounts to which section 855(a) and this section apply if the notice relating to such amounts is mailed to the shareholders not later than 45 days (30 days for a taxable year ending before February 26, 1964) after the close of the taxable year in which the distribution is made. If the notice under section 855(c) relates to an election with respect to any capital gain dividends, such capital gain dividends shall be aggregated by the investment company with the designated capital gain dividends actually paid during the taxable year to which the election applies (not including such dividends with respect to which an election has been made for a prior year under section 855) for the purpose of determining whether the aggregate of the designated capital gain dividends with respect to such taxable year of the company is greater than the excess of the net long-term capital gain over the net short-term capital loss of the company. See section 852(b)(3)(C) and paragraph (c) of § 1.852-4.

(f) *Foreign tax election.* Section 855(d) provides that in the case of an election made under section 853 (relating to foreign taxes), the shareholder of the investment company shall consider the foreign income received, and the foreign tax paid, as received and paid, respectively, in the shareholder's taxable year in which distribution is made.

[T.D. 6500, 25 FR 11910, Nov. 26, 1960, as amended by T.D. 6921, 32 FR 8757, June 20, 1967]