##### § 59.1 To what programs do these regulations apply? #####

(a) The regulations of this subpart are applicable to the award of grants under section 1001 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300) to assist in the establishment and operation of voluntary family planning projects. These projects shall consist of the educational, comprehensive medical, and social services necessary to aid individuals to determine freely the number and spacing of their children. Unless otherwise specified, the requirements imposed by these regulations apply equally to grantees and subrecipients, and grantees shall require and ensure that subrecipients (and the subrecipients of subrecipients) comply with the requirements contained in these regulations pursuant to their written contracts with such subrecipients.

(b) Except for §§ 59.4, 59.8, and 59.10, the regulations of this subpart are also applicable to the execution of contracts under section 1001 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300) to assist in the establishment and operation of voluntary family planning projects, and will be applied in accordance with the applicable statutes, procedures and regulations that generally govern Federal contracts. To this extent, the use of the terms “grant”, “award”, “grantee”, and “subrecipient” in applicable regulations of this subpart will apply similarly to contracts, contractors and subcontractors, and the use of the term “project” or “program” will also apply to a project or program established by means of a contract.

[84 FR 7786, Mar. 4, 2019, as amended at 84 FR 14313, Apr. 10, 2019]