##### § 1206.112 What adjustments and transportation allowances apply when I value oil production from my lease using NYMEX prices or ANS spot prices? #####

This section applies when you use NYMEX prices or ANS spot prices to calculate the value of production under § 1206.103. As specified in this section, adjust the NYMEX price to reflect the difference in value between your lease and Cushing, Oklahoma, or adjust the ANS spot price to reflect the difference in value between your lease and the appropriate ONRR-recognized market center at which the ANS spot price is published (for example, Long Beach, California, or San Francisco, California). Paragraph (a) of this section explains how you adjust the value between the lease and the market center, and paragraph (b) of this section explains how you adjust the value between the market center and Cushing when you use NYMEX prices. Paragraph (c) of this section explains how adjustments may be made for quality differentials that are not accounted for through exchange agreements. Paragraph (d) of this section gives some examples. References in this section to “you” include your affiliates as applicable.

(a) To adjust the value between the lease and the market center:

(1)(i) For oil that you exchange at arm's length between your lease and the market center (or between any intermediate points between those locations), you must calculate a lease-to-market center differential by the applicable location and quality differentials derived from your arm's-length exchange agreement applicable to production during the production month.

(ii) For oil that you exchange between your lease and the market center (or between any intermediate points between those locations) under an exchange agreement that is not at arm's length, you must obtain approval from ONRR for a location and quality differential. Until you obtain such approval, you may use the location and quality differential derived from that exchange agreement applicable to production during the production month. If ONRR prescribes a different differential, you must apply ONRR's differential to all periods for which you used your proposed differential. You must pay any additional royalties owed resulting from using ONRR's differential plus late payment interest from the original royalty due date, or you may report a credit for any overpaid royalties plus interest under 30 U.S.C. 1721(h).

(2) For oil that you transport between your lease and the market center (or between any intermediate points between those locations), you may take an allowance for the cost of transporting that oil between the relevant points as determined under § 1206.110 or § 1206.111, as applicable.

(3) If you transport or exchange at arm's length (or both transport and exchange) at least 20 percent, but not all, of your oil produced from the lease to a market center, determine the adjustment between the lease and the market center for the oil that is not transported or exchanged (or both transported and exchanged) to or through a market center as follows:

(i) Determine the volume-weighted average of the lease-to-market center adjustment calculated under paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section for the oil that you do transport or exchange (or both transport and exchange) from your lease to a market center.

(ii) Use that volume-weighted average lease-to-market center adjustment as the adjustment for the oil that you do not transport or exchange (or both transport and exchange) from your lease to a market center.

(4) If you transport or exchange (or both transport and exchange) less than 20 percent of the crude oil produced from your lease between the lease and a market center, you must propose to ONRR an adjustment between the lease and the market center for the portion of the oil that you do not transport or exchange (or both transport and exchange) to a market center. Until you obtain such approval, you may use your proposed adjustment. If ONRR prescribes a different adjustment, you must apply ONRR's adjustment to all periods for which you used your proposed adjustment. You must pay any additional royalties owed resulting from using ONRR's adjustment plus late payment interest from the original royalty due date, or you may report a credit for any overpaid royalties plus interest under 30 U.S.C. 1721(h).

(5) You may not both take a transportation allowance and use a location and quality adjustment or exchange differential for the same oil between the same points.

(b) For oil that you value using NYMEX prices, adjust the value between the market center and Cushing, Oklahoma, as follows:

(1) If you have arm's-length exchange agreements between the market center and Cushing under which you exchange to Cushing at least 20 percent of all the oil you own at the market center during the production month, you must use the volume-weighted average of the location and quality differentials from those agreements as the adjustment between the market center and Cushing for all the oil that you produce from the leases during that production month for which that market center is used.

(2) If paragraph (b)(1) of this section does not apply, you must use the WTI differential published in an ONRR-approved publication for the market center nearest your lease, for crude oil most similar in quality to your production, as the adjustment between the market center and Cushing. (For example, for light sweet crude oil produced offshore of Louisiana, use the WTI differential for Light Louisiana Sweet crude oil at St. James, Louisiana.) After you select an ONRR-approved publication, you may not select a different publication more often than once every 2 years, unless the publication you use is no longer published or ONRR revokes its approval of the publication. If you are required to change publications, you must begin a new 2-year period.

(3) If neither paragraph (b)(1) nor (b)(2) of this section applies, you may propose an alternative differential to ONRR. Until you obtain such approval, you may use your proposed differential. If ONRR prescribes a different differential, you must apply ONRR's differential to all periods for which you used your proposed differential. You must pay any additional royalties owed resulting from using ONRR's differential plus late payment interest from the original royalty due date, or you may report a credit for any overpaid royalties plus interest under 30 U.S.C. 1721(h).

(c)(1) If you adjust for location and quality differentials or for transportation costs under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, also adjust the NYMEX price or ANS spot price for quality based on premiums or penalties determined by pipeline quality bank specifications at intermediate commingling points or at the market center if those points are downstream of the royalty measurement point approved by BSEE or BLM, as applicable. Make this adjustment only if and to the extent that such adjustments were not already included in the location and quality differentials determined from your arm's-length exchange agreements.

(2) If the quality of your oil as adjusted is still different from the quality of the representative crude oil at the market center after making the quality adjustments described in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c)(1) of this section, you may make further gravity adjustments using posted price gravity tables. If quality bank adjustments do not incorporate or provide for adjustments for sulfur content, you may make sulfur adjustments, based on the quality of the representative crude oil at the market center, of 5.0 cents per one-tenth percent difference in sulfur content, unless ONRR approves a higher adjustment.

(d) The examples in this paragraph illustrate how to apply the requirement of this section.

(1) *Example.* Assume that a Federal lessee produces crude oil from a lease near Artesia, New Mexico. Further, assume that the lessee transports the oil to Roswell, New Mexico, and then exchanges the oil to Midland, Texas. Assume the lessee refines the oil received in exchange at Midland. Assume that the NYMEX price is $30.00/bbl, adjusted for the roll; that the WTI differential (Cushing to Midland) is −$.10/bbl; that the lessee's exchange agreement between Roswell and Midland results in a location and quality differential of −$.08/bbl; and that the lessee's actual cost of transporting the oil from Artesia to Roswell is $.40/bbl. In this example, the royalty value of the oil is $30.00−$.10−$.08 - $.40 = $29.42/bbl.

(2) *Example.* Assume the same facts as in the example in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, except that the lessee transports and exchanges to Midland 40 percent of the production from the lease near Artesia, and transports the remaining 60 percent directly to its own refinery in Ohio. In this example, the 40 percent of the production would be valued at $29.42/bbl, as explained in the previous example. In this example, the other 60 percent also would be valued at $29.42/bbl.

(3) *Example.* Assume that a Federal lessee produces crude oil from a lease near Bakersfield, California. Further, assume that the lessee transports the oil to Hynes Station, and then exchanges the oil to Cushing which it further exchanges with oil it refines. Assume that the ANS spot price is $20.00/bbl, and that the lessee's actual cost of transporting the oil from Bakersfield to Hynes Station is $.28/bbl. The lessee must request approval from ONRR for a location and quality adjustment between Hynes Station and Long Beach. For example, the lessee likely would propose using the tariff on Line 63 from Hynes Station to Long Beach as the adjustment between those points. Assume that adjustment to be $.72, including the sulfur and gravity bank adjustments, and that ONRR approves the lessee's request. In this example, the preliminary (because the location and quality adjustment is subject to ONRR review) royalty value of the oil is $20.00−$.72−$.28 = $19.00/bbl. The fact that oil was exchanged to Cushing does not change use of ANS spot prices for royalty valuation.