##### § 138.150 Service of process. #####

(a) When executing the forms required by this subpart, each applicant, certificant and guarantor must designate thereon a person located in the United States as its agent for service of process for purposes of this subpart and for receipt of notices of responsible party designations and presentations of claims under the Acts (collectively referred to herein as “service of process”). Each designated agent must acknowledge the agency designation in writing unless the agent has already furnished the Director, NPFC, with a master (*i.e.*, blanket) agency acknowledgment showing that the agent has agreed in advance to act as the United States agent for service of process for the applicant, certificant, or guarantor in question.

(b) If any applicant, certificant, or guarantor desires, for any reason, to change any designated agent, the applicant, certificant, or guarantor must notify the Director, NPFC, of the change. If a master agency acknowledgment for the new agent is not on file with NPFC, the applicant, certificant, or guarantor must furnish to the Director, NPFC, all the relevant information, including the new agent's acknowledgment, required in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section. In the event of death, disability, unavailability, or similar event of a designated agent, the applicant, certificant, or guarantor must designate another agent in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section within 10 days of knowledge of any such event. The applicant, certificant, or guarantor must submit the new designation to the Director, NPFC. The Director, NPFC, may deny or revoke a Certificate if an applicant, certificant, or guarantor fails to designate and maintain an agent for service of process.

(c) If a designated agent cannot be served because of death, disability, unavailability, or similar event, and another agent has not been designated under this section, then service of process on the Director, NPFC, will constitute valid service of process. Service of process on the Director, NPFC, will not be effective unless the server -

(1) Sends the applicant, certificant, or guarantor, as applicable (by registered mail, at the last known address on file with the Director, NPFC), a copy of each document served on the Director, NPFC; and

(2) Attests to this registered mailing, at the time process is served upon the Director, NPFC, indicating that the intent of the mailing is to effect service of process on the applicant, certificant, or guarantor and that service on the designated agent is not possible, stating the reason why.