##### ยง 1081.400 Recommended decision of the hearing officer. #####

(a) *Time period for filing recommended decision.* Subject to paragraph (b) of this section, the hearing officer shall file a recommended decision no later than 90 days after the deadline for filing post-hearing responsive briefs pursuant to ยง 1081.305(b) and in no event later than 300 days after filing of the notice of charges.

(b) *Extension of deadlines.* In the event the hearing officer presiding over the proceeding determines that it will not be possible to issue the recommended decision within the time periods specified in paragraph (a) of this section, the hearing officer shall submit a written request to the Director for an extension of the time period for filing the recommended decision. This request must be filed no later than 30 days prior to the expiration of the time for issuance of a recommended decision. The request will be served on all parties in the proceeding, who may file with the Director briefs in support of or in opposition to the request. Any such briefs must be filed within three days of service of the hearing officer's request and shall not exceed five pages. If the Director determines that additional time is necessary or appropriate in the public interest, the Director shall issue an order extending the time period for filing the recommended decision.

(c) *Content.* (1) A recommended decision shall be based on a consideration of the whole record relevant to the issues decided, and shall be supported by reliable, probative, and substantial evidence. The recommended decision shall include a statement of findings of fact (with specific page references to principal supporting items of evidence in the record) and conclusions of law, as well as the reasons or basis therefore, as to all the material issues of fact, law, or discretion presented on the record and the appropriate order, sanction, relief or denial thereof. The recommended decision shall also state that a notice of appeal may be filed within ten days after service of the recommended decision and include a statement that, unless a party timely files and perfects a notice of appeal of the recommended decision, the Director may adopt the recommended decision as the final decision and order of the Bureau without further opportunity for briefing or argument.

(2) Consistent with paragraph (a) of this section, when more than one claim for relief is presented in an adjudication proceeding, or when multiple parties are involved, the hearing officer may direct the entry of a recommended decision as to one or more but fewer than all of the claims or parties only upon an express determination that there is no just reason for delay and upon an express direction for the entry of a recommended decision.

(d) *By whom made.* The recommended decision shall be made and filed by the hearing officer who presided over the hearings, except when he or she shall have become unavailable to the Bureau.

(e) *Reopening of proceeding by hearing officer; termination of jurisdiction.* (1) At any time from the close of the hearing record pursuant to ยง 1081.304(c) until the filing of his or her recommended decision, a hearing officer may reopen the proceeding for the receipt of further evidence for good cause shown.

(2) Except for the correction of clerical errors or pursuant to an order of remand from the Director, the jurisdiction of the hearing officer is terminated upon the filing of his or her recommended decision with respect to those issues decided pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section.

(f) *Filing, service, and publication.* Upon filing by the hearing officer of the recommended decision, the Office of Administrative Adjudication shall promptly transmit the recommended decision to the Director and serve the recommended decision upon the parties.