cfr/title-24-Housing-Urban-Development/subtitle-B-Regulations-Relating-Housing-Urban-Development/chapter-II-Office-Assistant-Secretary-Housing-Federal-Housing-Commissioner-Department-Housing-Urban-Development/subchapter-B-Mortgage-Loan-Insurance-Programs-Under-National-Housing-Act-Other-Authorities/part-266-Housing-Finance-Agency-RiskSharing-Program-Insured-Affordable-Multifamily-Project-Loans/subpart-C-Program-Requirements/section-266.210.md, before:

##### § 266.210 HUD-retained review functions. #####

Link to an amendment published at 85 FR 83442, Dec. 22, 2020.

Certain functions are retained by the Commissioner. The HFA must submit any information or certification required by the Commissioner to permit determination of compliance with requirements concerning:

(a) *Previous participation of principals.* Previous participation of the principals of the mortgagor, general contractor, consultant or management agent in accordance with the Previous Participation and Clearance Review Procedures of 24 CFR 200.210 through 200.218.

(b) *Environmental review requirements.* To determine compliance with the requirements of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 and related laws and authorities, the HUD Field Office (or other responsible entity through such delegation as may be in effect by regulation hereafter) will visit each project site proposed for insurance under this part and prepare the applicable environmental reviews as set forth in 24 CFR part 50 (or as set forth in 24 CFR part 58 for the other responsible entity). These requirements must be completed before HUD may issue the firm approval letter.

(c) *Intergovernmental review.* Intergovernmental review of Federal programs under Executive Order 12372, as implemented in 24 CFR part 52.

(d) *Subsidy layering.* The Commissioner, or Housing Credit Agencies through such delegation as may be in effect by regulation hereafter, shall review all projects receiving tax credits and some form of HUD assistance for any excess subsidy provided to individual projects and reduce subsidy sources in accordance with outstanding guidelines.

(e) *Davis-Bacon Act.* The Commissioner shall obtain and provide to the HFA the appropriate Department of Labor wage rate determinations under the Davis-Bacon Act, where they apply under this part.

[59 FR 62524, Dec. 5, 1994, as amended at 60 FR 16573, Mar. 31, 1995]

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2021-01-21 issue
Title: 5: Administrative Personnel - Sections changed: 1
Title: 48: Federal Acquisition Regulations System - Sections changed: 30
Title: 24: Housing and Urban Development - Sections changed: 42
Title: 33: Navigation and Navigable Waters - Sections changed: 1
Title: 37: Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights - Sections changed: 4
Title: 40: Protection of Environment - Sections changed: 1
Title: 42: Public Health - Sections changed: 1
Title: 49: Transportation - Sections changed: 57

cfr/title-24-Housing-Urban-Development/subtitle-B-Regulations-Relating-Housing-Urban-Development/chapter-II-Office-Assistant-Secretary-Housing-Federal-Housing-Commissioner-Department-Housing-Urban-Development/subchapter-B-Mortgage-Loan-Insurance-Programs-Under-National-Housing-Act-Other-Authorities/part-266-Housing-Finance-Agency-RiskSharing-Program-Insured-Affordable-Multifamily-Project-Loans/subpart-C-Program-Requirements/section-266.210.md, after:

##### § 266.210 HUD-retained review functions. #####

Certain functions are retained by the Commissioner. The HFA must submit any information or certification required by the Commissioner to permit determination of compliance with requirements concerning:

(a) *Previous participation of principals.* Previous participation of the principals of the mortgagor, general contractor, consultant or management agent in accordance with the Previous Participation and Clearance Review Procedures of 24 CFR 200.210 through 200.218.

(b) *Intergovernmental review.* Intergovernmental review of Federal programs under Executive Order 12372, as implemented in 24 CFR part 52.

(c) *Subsidy layering.* The Commissioner, or Housing Credit Agencies as defined by section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 42), through such delegation as may be in effect by regulation hereafter, shall review all projects receiving tax credits and some form of HUD assistance for any excess subsidy provided to individual projects and reduce subsidy sources in accordance with outstanding guidelines.

(d) *Davis-Bacon Act.* The Commissioner shall obtain and provide to the HFA the appropriate U.S. Department of Labor wage rate determinations under the Davis-Bacon Act, where they apply under this part.

[59 FR 62524, Dec. 5, 1994, as amended at 60 FR 16573, Mar. 31, 1995; 85 FR 83442, Dec. 22, 2020]
