##### § 93.127 Projects exempt from regional emissions analyses. #####

Notwithstanding the other requirements of this subpart, highway and transit projects of the types listed in Table 3 of this section are exempt from regional emissions analysis requirements. The local effects of these projects with respect to CO concentrations must be considered to determine if a hot-spot analysis is required prior to making a project-level conformity determination. The local effects of projects with respect to PM10 and PM2.5 concentrations must be considered and a hot-spot analysis performed prior to making a project-level conformity determination, if a project in Table 3 also meets the criteria in § 93.123(b)(1). These projects may then proceed to the project development process even in the absence of a conforming transportation plan and TIP. A particular action of the type listed in Table 3 of this section is not exempt from regional emissions analysis if the MPO in consultation with other agencies (see § 93.105(c)(1)(iii)), the EPA, and the FHWA (in the case of a highway project) or the FTA (in the case of a transit project) concur that it has potential regional impacts for any reason. Table 3 follows:

Table 3—Projects Exempt From Regional Emissions AnalysesIntersection channelization projects. Intersection signalization projects at individual intersections. Interchange reconfiguration projects. Changes in vertical and horizontal alignment. Truck size and weight inspection stations. Bus terminals and transfer points.[58 FR 62235, Nov. 24, 1993, as amended at 71 FR 12511, Mar. 10, 2006]