cfr/title-12-Banks-Banking/chapter-I-Comptroller-Currency-Department-Treasury/part-3-Capital-Adequacy-Standards/subpart-D-RiskWeighted-Assets-Standardized-Approach/subjectgroup-ECFR0421364ba0fd924-RiskWeighted-Assets-For-General-Credit-Risk/section-3.32.md, before:

##### § 3.32 General risk weights. #####

(a) *Sovereign exposures* - (1) *Exposures to the U.S. government.* (i) Notwithstanding any other requirement in this subpart, a national bank or Federal savings association must assign a zero percent risk weight to:

(A) An exposure to the U.S. government, its central bank, or a U.S. government agency; and

(B) The portion of an exposure that is directly and unconditionally guaranteed by the U.S. government, its central bank, or a U.S. government agency. This includes a deposit or other exposure, or the portion of a deposit or other exposure, that is insured or otherwise unconditionally guaranteed by the FDIC or National Credit Union Administration.

(ii) A national bank or Federal savings association must assign a 20 percent risk weight to the portion of an exposure that is conditionally guaranteed by the U.S. government, its central bank, or a U.S. government agency. This includes an exposure, or the portion of an exposure, that is conditionally guaranteed by the FDIC or National Credit Union Administration.

(2) *Other sovereign exposures.* In accordance with Table 1 to § 3.32, a national bank or Federal savings association must assign a risk weight to a sovereign exposure based on the CRC applicable to the sovereign or the sovereign's OECD membership status if there is no CRC applicable to the sovereign.

Table 1 to § 3.32 - Risk Weights for Sovereign Exposures

|                           |Risk weight  <br/>(in percent)|
|---------------------------|------------------------------|
|           CRC:            |                              |
|            0-1            |              0               |
|             2             |              20              |
|             3             |              50              |
|            4-6            |             100              |
|             7             |             150              |
|  OECD Member with No CRC  |              0               |
|Non-OECD Member with No CRC|             100              |
|     Sovereign Default     |             150              |

(3) *Certain sovereign exposures.* Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(2) of this section, a national bank or Federal savings association may assign to a sovereign exposure a risk weight that is lower than the applicable risk weight in Table 1 to § 3.32 if:

(i) The exposure is denominated in the sovereign's currency;

(ii) The national bank or Federal savings association has at least an equivalent amount of liabilities in that currency; and

(iii) The risk weight is not lower than the risk weight that the home country supervisor allows national banks or Federal savings associations under its jurisdiction to assign to the same exposures to the sovereign.

(4) *Exposures to a non-OECD member sovereign with no CRC.* Except as provided in paragraphs (a)(3), (a)(5) and (a)(6) of this section, a national bank or Federal savings association must assign a 100 percent risk weight to an exposure to a sovereign if the sovereign does not have a CRC.

(5) *Exposures to an OECD member sovereign with no CRC.* Except as provided in paragraph (a)(6) of this section, a national bank or Federal savings association must assign a 0 percent risk weight to an exposure to a sovereign that is a member of the OECD if the sovereign does not have a CRC.

(6) *Sovereign default.* A national bank or Federal savings association must assign a 150 percent risk weight to a sovereign exposure immediately upon determining that an event of sovereign default has occurred, or if an event of sovereign default has occurred during the previous five years.

(b) *Certain supranational entities and multilateral development banks (MDBs).* A national bank or Federal savings association must assign a zero percent risk weight to an exposure to the Bank for International Settlements, the European Central Bank, the European Commission, the International Monetary Fund, the European Stability Mechanism, the European Financial Stability Facility, or an MDB.

(c) *Exposures to GSEs.* (1) A national bank or Federal savings association must assign a 20 percent risk weight to an exposure to a GSE other than an equity exposure or preferred stock.

(2) A national bank or Federal savings association must assign a 100 percent risk weight to preferred stock issued by a GSE.

(d) *Exposures to depository institutions, foreign banks, and credit unions* - (1) *Exposures to U.S. depository institutions and credit unions.* A national bank or Federal savings association must assign a 20 percent risk weight to an exposure to a depository institution or credit union that is organized under the laws of the United States or any state thereof, except as otherwise provided under paragraph (d)(3) of this section.

(2) *Exposures to foreign banks.* (i) Except as otherwise provided under paragraphs (d)(2)(iii), (d)(2)(v), and (d)(3) of this section, a national bank or Federal savings association must assign a risk weight to an exposure to a foreign bank, in accordance with Table 2 to § 3.32, based on the CRC that corresponds to the foreign bank's home country or the OECD membership status of the foreign bank's home country if there is no CRC applicable to the foreign bank's home country.

Table 2 to § 3.32 - Risk Weights for Exposures to Foreign Banks

|                           |Risk weight  <br/>(in percent)|
|---------------------------|------------------------------|
|           CRC:            |                              |
|            0-1            |              20              |
|             2             |              50              |
|             3             |             100              |
|            4-7            |             150              |
|  OECD Member with No CRC  |              20              |
|Non-OECD Member with No CRC|             100              |
|     Sovereign Default     |             150              |

(ii) A national bank or Federal savings association must assign a 20 percent risk weight to an exposure to a foreign bank whose home country is a member of the OECD and does not have a CRC.

(iii) A national bank or Federal savings association must assign a 20 percent risk-weight to an exposure that is a self-liquidating, trade-related contingent item that arises from the movement of goods and that has a maturity of three months or less to a foreign bank whose home country has a CRC of 0, 1, 2, or 3, or is an OECD member with no CRC.

(iv) A national bank or Federal savings association must assign a 100 percent risk weight to an exposure to a foreign bank whose home country is not a member of the OECD and does not have a CRC, with the exception of self-liquidating, trade-related contingent items that arise from the movement of goods, and that have a maturity of three months or less, which may be assigned a 20 percent risk weight.

(v) A national bank or Federal savings association must assign a 150 percent risk weight to an exposure to a foreign bank immediately upon determining that an event of sovereign default has occurred in the bank's home country, or if an event of sovereign default has occurred in the foreign bank's home country during the previous five years.

(3) A national bank or Federal savings association must assign a 100 percent risk weight to an exposure to a financial institution if the exposure may be included in that financial institution's capital unless the exposure is:

(i) An equity exposure;

(ii) A significant investment in the capital of an unconsolidated financial institution in the form of common stock pursuant to § 3.22(d)(2)(i)(c);

(iii) Deducted from regulatory capital under § 3.22; or

(iv) Subject to a 150 percent risk weight under paragraph (d)(2)(iv) or Table 2 of paragraph (d)(2) of this section.

(e) *Exposures to public sector entities (PSEs)* - (1) *Exposures to U.S. PSEs.* (i) A national bank or Federal savings association must assign a 20 percent risk weight to a general obligation exposure to a PSE that is organized under the laws of the United States or any state or political subdivision thereof.

(ii) A national bank or Federal savings association must assign a 50 percent risk weight to a revenue obligation exposure to a PSE that is organized under the laws of the United States or any state or political subdivision thereof.

(2) *Exposures to foreign PSEs.* (i) Except as provided in paragraphs (e)(1) and (e)(3) of this section, a national bank or Federal savings association must assign a risk weight to a general obligation exposure to a PSE, in accordance with Table 3 to § 3.32, based on the CRC that corresponds to the PSE's home country or the OECD membership status of the PSE's home country if there is no CRC applicable to the PSE's home country.

(ii) Except as provided in paragraphs (e)(1) and (e)(3) of this section, a national bank or Federal savings association must assign a risk weight to a revenue obligation exposure to a PSE, in accordance with Table 4 to § 3.32, based on the CRC that corresponds to the PSE's home country; or the OECD membership status of the PSE's home country if there is no CRC applicable to the PSE's home country.

(3) A national bank or Federal savings association may assign a lower risk weight than would otherwise apply under Tables 3 or 4 to § 3.32 to an exposure to a foreign PSE if:

(i) The PSE's home country supervisor allows banks under its jurisdiction to assign a lower risk weight to such exposures; and

(ii) The risk weight is not lower than the risk weight that corresponds to the PSE's home country in accordance with Table 1 to § 3.32.

Table 3 to § 3.32 - Risk Weights for Non-U.S. PSE General Obligations

|                           |Risk weight  <br/>(in percent)|
|---------------------------|------------------------------|
|           CRC:            |                              |
|            0-1            |              20              |
|             2             |              50              |
|             3             |             100              |
|            4-7            |             150              |
|  OECD Member with No CRC  |              20              |
|Non-OECD Member with No CRC|             100              |
|     Sovereign Default     |             150              |

Table 4 to § 3.32 - Risk Weights for Non-U.S. PSE Revenue Obligations

|                           |Risk weight  <br/>(in percent)|
|---------------------------|------------------------------|
|           CRC:            |                              |
|            0-1            |              50              |
|            2-3            |             100              |
|            4-7            |             150              |
|  OECD Member with No CRC  |              50              |
|Non-OECD Member with No CRC|             100              |
|     Sovereign Default     |             150              |

(4) *Exposures to PSEs from an OECD member sovereign with no CRC.* (i) A national bank or Federal savings association must assign a 20 percent risk weight to a general obligation exposure to a PSE whose home country is an OECD member sovereign with no CRC.

(ii) A national bank or Federal savings association must assign a 50 percent risk weight to a revenue obligation exposure to a PSE whose home country is an OECD member sovereign with no CRC.

(5) *Exposures to PSEs whose home country is not an OECD member sovereign with no CRC.* A national bank or Federal savings association must assign a 100 percent risk weight to an exposure to a PSE whose home country is not a member of the OECD and does not have a CRC.

(6) A national bank or Federal savings association must assign a 150 percent risk weight to a PSE exposure immediately upon determining that an event of sovereign default has occurred in a PSE's home country or if an event of sovereign default has occurred in the PSE's home country during the previous five years.

(f) *Corporate exposures.* (1) A national bank or Federal savings association must assign a 100 percent risk weight to all its corporate exposures, except as provided in paragraph (f)(2) of this section.

(2) A national bank or Federal savings association must assign a 2 percent risk weight to an exposure to a QCCP arising from the national bank or Federal savings association posting cash collateral to the QCCP in connection with a cleared transaction that meets the requirements of § 3.35(b)(3)(i)(A) and a 4 percent risk weight to an exposure to a QCCP arising from the national bank or Federal savings association posting cash collateral to the QCCP in connection with a cleared transaction that meets the requirements of § 3.35(b)(3)(i)(B).

(3) A national bank or Federal savings association must assign a 2 percent risk weight to an exposure to a QCCP arising from the national bank or Federal savings association posting cash collateral to the QCCP in connection with a cleared transaction that meets the requirements of § 3.35(c)(3)(i).

(g) *Residential mortgage exposures.* (1) A national bank or Federal savings association must assign a 50 percent risk weight to a first-lien residential mortgage exposure that:

(i) Is secured by a property that is either owner-occupied or rented;

(ii) Is made in accordance with prudent underwriting standards, including standards relating to the loan amount as a percent of the appraised value of the property;

(iii) Is not 90 days or more past due or carried in nonaccrual status; and

(iv) Is not restructured or modified.

(2) A national bank or Federal savings association must assign a 100 percent risk weight to a first-lien residential mortgage exposure that does not meet the criteria in paragraph (g)(1) of this section, and to junior-lien residential mortgage exposures.

(3) For the purpose of this paragraph (g), if a national bank or Federal savings association holds the first-lien and junior-lien(s) residential mortgage exposures, and no other party holds an intervening lien, the national bank or Federal savings association must combine the exposures and treat them as a single first-lien residential mortgage exposure.

(4) A loan modified or restructured solely pursuant to the U.S. Treasury's Home Affordable Mortgage Program is not modified or restructured for purposes of this section.

(h) *Pre-sold construction loans.* A national bank or Federal savings association must assign a 50 percent risk weight to a pre-sold construction loan unless the purchase contract is cancelled, in which case a national bank or Federal savings association must assign a 100 percent risk weight.

(i) *Statutory multifamily mortgages.* A national bank or Federal savings association must assign a 50 percent risk weight to a statutory multifamily mortgage.

(j) *High-volatility commercial real estate (HVCRE) exposures.* A national bank or Federal savings association must assign a 150 percent risk weight to an HVCRE exposure.

(k) *Past due exposures.* Except for an exposure to a sovereign entity or a residential mortgage exposure or a policy loan, if an exposure is 90 days or more past due or on nonaccrual:

(1) A national bank or Federal savings association must assign a 150 percent risk weight to the portion of the exposure that is not guaranteed or that is unsecured;

(2) A national bank or Federal savings association may assign a risk weight to the guaranteed portion of a past due exposure based on the risk weight that applies under § 3.36 if the guarantee or credit derivative meets the requirements of that section; and

(3) A national bank or Federal savings association may assign a risk weight to the collateralized portion of a past due exposure based on the risk weight that applies under § 3.37 if the collateral meets the requirements of that section.

(l) *Other assets.* (1) A national bank or Federal savings association must assign a zero percent risk weight to cash owned and held in all offices of the national bank or Federal savings association or in transit; to gold bullion held in the national bank's or Federal savings association's own vaults or held in another depository institution's vaults on an allocated basis, to the extent the gold bullion assets are offset by gold bullion liabilities; and to exposures that arise from the settlement of cash transactions (such as equities, fixed income, spot foreign exchange and spot commodities) with a central counterparty where there is no assumption of ongoing counterparty credit risk by the central counterparty after settlement of the trade and associated default fund contributions.

(2) A national bank or Federal savings association must assign a 20 percent risk weight to cash items in the process of collection.

(3) A national bank or Federal savings association must assign a 100 percent risk weight to DTAs arising from temporary differences that the national bank or Federal savings association could realize through net operating loss carrybacks.

(4) A national bank or Federal savings association must assign a 250 percent risk weight to the portion of each of the following items to the extent it is not deducted from common equity tier 1 capital pursuant to § 3.22(d):

(i) MSAs; and

(ii) DTAs arising from temporary differences that the national bank or Federal savings association could not realize through net operating loss carrybacks.

(5) A national bank or Federal savings association must assign a 100 percent risk weight to all assets not specifically assigned a different risk weight under this subpart and that are not deducted from tier 1 or tier 2 capital pursuant to § 3.22.

(6) Notwithstanding the requirements of this section, a national bank or Federal savings association may assign an asset that is not included in one of the categories provided in this section to the risk weight category applicable under the capital rules applicable to bank holding companies and savings and loan holding companies at 12 CFR part 217, provided that all of the following conditions apply:

(i) The national bank or Federal savings association is not authorized to hold the asset under applicable law other than debt previously contracted or similar authority; and

(ii) The risks associated with the asset are substantially similar to the risks of assets that are otherwise assigned to a risk weight category of less than 100 percent under this subpart.

[78 FR 62157, 62273, Oct. 11, 2013, as amended at 84 FR 35254, July 22, 2019; 85 FR 4402, Jan. 24, 2020]

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2020-04-13 issue
Title: 27: Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms - Sections changed: 12
Title: 12: Banks and Banking - Sections changed: 14
Title: 40: Protection of Environment - Sections changed: 7
Title: 47: Telecommunication - Sections changed: 5
Title: 50: Wildlife and Fisheries - Sections changed: 4

cfr/title-12-Banks-Banking/chapter-I-Comptroller-Currency-Department-Treasury/part-3-Capital-Adequacy-Standards/subpart-D-RiskWeighted-Assets-Standardized-Approach/subjectgroup-ECFR0421364ba0fd924-RiskWeighted-Assets-For-General-Credit-Risk/section-3.32.md, after:

##### § 3.32 General risk weights. #####

(a) *Sovereign exposures* - (1) *Exposures to the U.S. government.* (i) Notwithstanding any other requirement in this subpart, a national bank or Federal savings association must assign a zero percent risk weight to:

(A) An exposure to the U.S. government, its central bank, or a U.S. government agency; and

(B) The portion of an exposure that is directly and unconditionally guaranteed by the U.S. government, its central bank, or a U.S. government agency. This includes a deposit or other exposure, or the portion of a deposit or other exposure, that is insured or otherwise unconditionally guaranteed by the FDIC or National Credit Union Administration.

(ii) A national bank or Federal savings association must assign a 20 percent risk weight to the portion of an exposure that is conditionally guaranteed by the U.S. government, its central bank, or a U.S. government agency. This includes an exposure, or the portion of an exposure, that is conditionally guaranteed by the FDIC or National Credit Union Administration.

(iii) A national bank or Federal savings association must assign a zero percent risk weight to a Paycheck Protection Program covered loan as defined in section 7(a)(36) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 636(a)(36)).

(2) *Other sovereign exposures.* In accordance with Table 1 to § 3.32, a national bank or Federal savings association must assign a risk weight to a sovereign exposure based on the CRC applicable to the sovereign or the sovereign's OECD membership status if there is no CRC applicable to the sovereign.

Table 1 to § 3.32 - Risk Weights for Sovereign Exposures

|                           |Risk weight  <br/>(in percent)|
|---------------------------|------------------------------|
|           CRC:            |                              |
|            0-1            |              0               |
|             2             |              20              |
|             3             |              50              |
|            4-6            |             100              |
|             7             |             150              |
|  OECD Member with No CRC  |              0               |
|Non-OECD Member with No CRC|             100              |
|     Sovereign Default     |             150              |

(3) *Certain sovereign exposures.* Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(2) of this section, a national bank or Federal savings association may assign to a sovereign exposure a risk weight that is lower than the applicable risk weight in Table 1 to § 3.32 if:

(i) The exposure is denominated in the sovereign's currency;

(ii) The national bank or Federal savings association has at least an equivalent amount of liabilities in that currency; and

(iii) The risk weight is not lower than the risk weight that the home country supervisor allows national banks or Federal savings associations under its jurisdiction to assign to the same exposures to the sovereign.

(4) *Exposures to a non-OECD member sovereign with no CRC.* Except as provided in paragraphs (a)(3), (a)(5) and (a)(6) of this section, a national bank or Federal savings association must assign a 100 percent risk weight to an exposure to a sovereign if the sovereign does not have a CRC.

(5) *Exposures to an OECD member sovereign with no CRC.* Except as provided in paragraph (a)(6) of this section, a national bank or Federal savings association must assign a 0 percent risk weight to an exposure to a sovereign that is a member of the OECD if the sovereign does not have a CRC.

(6) *Sovereign default.* A national bank or Federal savings association must assign a 150 percent risk weight to a sovereign exposure immediately upon determining that an event of sovereign default has occurred, or if an event of sovereign default has occurred during the previous five years.

(b) *Certain supranational entities and multilateral development banks (MDBs).* A national bank or Federal savings association must assign a zero percent risk weight to an exposure to the Bank for International Settlements, the European Central Bank, the European Commission, the International Monetary Fund, the European Stability Mechanism, the European Financial Stability Facility, or an MDB.

(c) *Exposures to GSEs.* (1) A national bank or Federal savings association must assign a 20 percent risk weight to an exposure to a GSE other than an equity exposure or preferred stock.

(2) A national bank or Federal savings association must assign a 100 percent risk weight to preferred stock issued by a GSE.

(d) *Exposures to depository institutions, foreign banks, and credit unions* - (1) *Exposures to U.S. depository institutions and credit unions.* A national bank or Federal savings association must assign a 20 percent risk weight to an exposure to a depository institution or credit union that is organized under the laws of the United States or any state thereof, except as otherwise provided under paragraph (d)(3) of this section.

(2) *Exposures to foreign banks.* (i) Except as otherwise provided under paragraphs (d)(2)(iii), (d)(2)(v), and (d)(3) of this section, a national bank or Federal savings association must assign a risk weight to an exposure to a foreign bank, in accordance with Table 2 to § 3.32, based on the CRC that corresponds to the foreign bank's home country or the OECD membership status of the foreign bank's home country if there is no CRC applicable to the foreign bank's home country.

Table 2 to § 3.32 - Risk Weights for Exposures to Foreign Banks

|                           |Risk weight  <br/>(in percent)|
|---------------------------|------------------------------|
|           CRC:            |                              |
|            0-1            |              20              |
|             2             |              50              |
|             3             |             100              |
|            4-7            |             150              |
|  OECD Member with No CRC  |              20              |
|Non-OECD Member with No CRC|             100              |
|     Sovereign Default     |             150              |

(ii) A national bank or Federal savings association must assign a 20 percent risk weight to an exposure to a foreign bank whose home country is a member of the OECD and does not have a CRC.

(iii) A national bank or Federal savings association must assign a 20 percent risk-weight to an exposure that is a self-liquidating, trade-related contingent item that arises from the movement of goods and that has a maturity of three months or less to a foreign bank whose home country has a CRC of 0, 1, 2, or 3, or is an OECD member with no CRC.

(iv) A national bank or Federal savings association must assign a 100 percent risk weight to an exposure to a foreign bank whose home country is not a member of the OECD and does not have a CRC, with the exception of self-liquidating, trade-related contingent items that arise from the movement of goods, and that have a maturity of three months or less, which may be assigned a 20 percent risk weight.

(v) A national bank or Federal savings association must assign a 150 percent risk weight to an exposure to a foreign bank immediately upon determining that an event of sovereign default has occurred in the bank's home country, or if an event of sovereign default has occurred in the foreign bank's home country during the previous five years.

(3) A national bank or Federal savings association must assign a 100 percent risk weight to an exposure to a financial institution if the exposure may be included in that financial institution's capital unless the exposure is:

(i) An equity exposure;

(ii) A significant investment in the capital of an unconsolidated financial institution in the form of common stock pursuant to § 3.22(d)(2)(i)(c);

(iii) Deducted from regulatory capital under § 3.22; or

(iv) Subject to a 150 percent risk weight under paragraph (d)(2)(iv) or Table 2 of paragraph (d)(2) of this section.

(e) *Exposures to public sector entities (PSEs)* - (1) *Exposures to U.S. PSEs.* (i) A national bank or Federal savings association must assign a 20 percent risk weight to a general obligation exposure to a PSE that is organized under the laws of the United States or any state or political subdivision thereof.

(ii) A national bank or Federal savings association must assign a 50 percent risk weight to a revenue obligation exposure to a PSE that is organized under the laws of the United States or any state or political subdivision thereof.

(2) *Exposures to foreign PSEs.* (i) Except as provided in paragraphs (e)(1) and (e)(3) of this section, a national bank or Federal savings association must assign a risk weight to a general obligation exposure to a PSE, in accordance with Table 3 to § 3.32, based on the CRC that corresponds to the PSE's home country or the OECD membership status of the PSE's home country if there is no CRC applicable to the PSE's home country.

(ii) Except as provided in paragraphs (e)(1) and (e)(3) of this section, a national bank or Federal savings association must assign a risk weight to a revenue obligation exposure to a PSE, in accordance with Table 4 to § 3.32, based on the CRC that corresponds to the PSE's home country; or the OECD membership status of the PSE's home country if there is no CRC applicable to the PSE's home country.

(3) A national bank or Federal savings association may assign a lower risk weight than would otherwise apply under Tables 3 or 4 to § 3.32 to an exposure to a foreign PSE if:

(i) The PSE's home country supervisor allows banks under its jurisdiction to assign a lower risk weight to such exposures; and

(ii) The risk weight is not lower than the risk weight that corresponds to the PSE's home country in accordance with Table 1 to § 3.32.

Table 3 to § 3.32 - Risk Weights for Non-U.S. PSE General Obligations

|                           |Risk weight  <br/>(in percent)|
|---------------------------|------------------------------|
|           CRC:            |                              |
|            0-1            |              20              |
|             2             |              50              |
|             3             |             100              |
|            4-7            |             150              |
|  OECD Member with No CRC  |              20              |
|Non-OECD Member with No CRC|             100              |
|     Sovereign Default     |             150              |

Table 4 to § 3.32 - Risk Weights for Non-U.S. PSE Revenue Obligations

|                           |Risk weight  <br/>(in percent)|
|---------------------------|------------------------------|
|           CRC:            |                              |
|            0-1            |              50              |
|            2-3            |             100              |
|            4-7            |             150              |
|  OECD Member with No CRC  |              50              |
|Non-OECD Member with No CRC|             100              |
|     Sovereign Default     |             150              |

(4) *Exposures to PSEs from an OECD member sovereign with no CRC.* (i) A national bank or Federal savings association must assign a 20 percent risk weight to a general obligation exposure to a PSE whose home country is an OECD member sovereign with no CRC.

(ii) A national bank or Federal savings association must assign a 50 percent risk weight to a revenue obligation exposure to a PSE whose home country is an OECD member sovereign with no CRC.

(5) *Exposures to PSEs whose home country is not an OECD member sovereign with no CRC.* A national bank or Federal savings association must assign a 100 percent risk weight to an exposure to a PSE whose home country is not a member of the OECD and does not have a CRC.

(6) A national bank or Federal savings association must assign a 150 percent risk weight to a PSE exposure immediately upon determining that an event of sovereign default has occurred in a PSE's home country or if an event of sovereign default has occurred in the PSE's home country during the previous five years.

(f) *Corporate exposures.* (1) A national bank or Federal savings association must assign a 100 percent risk weight to all its corporate exposures, except as provided in paragraph (f)(2) of this section.

(2) A national bank or Federal savings association must assign a 2 percent risk weight to an exposure to a QCCP arising from the national bank or Federal savings association posting cash collateral to the QCCP in connection with a cleared transaction that meets the requirements of § 3.35(b)(3)(i)(A) and a 4 percent risk weight to an exposure to a QCCP arising from the national bank or Federal savings association posting cash collateral to the QCCP in connection with a cleared transaction that meets the requirements of § 3.35(b)(3)(i)(B).

(3) A national bank or Federal savings association must assign a 2 percent risk weight to an exposure to a QCCP arising from the national bank or Federal savings association posting cash collateral to the QCCP in connection with a cleared transaction that meets the requirements of § 3.35(c)(3)(i).

(g) *Residential mortgage exposures.* (1) A national bank or Federal savings association must assign a 50 percent risk weight to a first-lien residential mortgage exposure that:

(i) Is secured by a property that is either owner-occupied or rented;

(ii) Is made in accordance with prudent underwriting standards, including standards relating to the loan amount as a percent of the appraised value of the property;

(iii) Is not 90 days or more past due or carried in nonaccrual status; and

(iv) Is not restructured or modified.

(2) A national bank or Federal savings association must assign a 100 percent risk weight to a first-lien residential mortgage exposure that does not meet the criteria in paragraph (g)(1) of this section, and to junior-lien residential mortgage exposures.

(3) For the purpose of this paragraph (g), if a national bank or Federal savings association holds the first-lien and junior-lien(s) residential mortgage exposures, and no other party holds an intervening lien, the national bank or Federal savings association must combine the exposures and treat them as a single first-lien residential mortgage exposure.

(4) A loan modified or restructured solely pursuant to the U.S. Treasury's Home Affordable Mortgage Program is not modified or restructured for purposes of this section.

(h) *Pre-sold construction loans.* A national bank or Federal savings association must assign a 50 percent risk weight to a pre-sold construction loan unless the purchase contract is cancelled, in which case a national bank or Federal savings association must assign a 100 percent risk weight.

(i) *Statutory multifamily mortgages.* A national bank or Federal savings association must assign a 50 percent risk weight to a statutory multifamily mortgage.

(j) *High-volatility commercial real estate (HVCRE) exposures.* A national bank or Federal savings association must assign a 150 percent risk weight to an HVCRE exposure.

(k) *Past due exposures.* Except for an exposure to a sovereign entity or a residential mortgage exposure or a policy loan, if an exposure is 90 days or more past due or on nonaccrual:

(1) A national bank or Federal savings association must assign a 150 percent risk weight to the portion of the exposure that is not guaranteed or that is unsecured;

(2) A national bank or Federal savings association may assign a risk weight to the guaranteed portion of a past due exposure based on the risk weight that applies under § 3.36 if the guarantee or credit derivative meets the requirements of that section; and

(3) A national bank or Federal savings association may assign a risk weight to the collateralized portion of a past due exposure based on the risk weight that applies under § 3.37 if the collateral meets the requirements of that section.

(l) *Other assets.* (1) A national bank or Federal savings association must assign a zero percent risk weight to cash owned and held in all offices of the national bank or Federal savings association or in transit; to gold bullion held in the national bank's or Federal savings association's own vaults or held in another depository institution's vaults on an allocated basis, to the extent the gold bullion assets are offset by gold bullion liabilities; and to exposures that arise from the settlement of cash transactions (such as equities, fixed income, spot foreign exchange and spot commodities) with a central counterparty where there is no assumption of ongoing counterparty credit risk by the central counterparty after settlement of the trade and associated default fund contributions.

(2) A national bank or Federal savings association must assign a 20 percent risk weight to cash items in the process of collection.

(3) A national bank or Federal savings association must assign a 100 percent risk weight to DTAs arising from temporary differences that the national bank or Federal savings association could realize through net operating loss carrybacks.

(4) A national bank or Federal savings association must assign a 250 percent risk weight to the portion of each of the following items to the extent it is not deducted from common equity tier 1 capital pursuant to § 3.22(d):

(i) MSAs; and

(ii) DTAs arising from temporary differences that the national bank or Federal savings association could not realize through net operating loss carrybacks.

(5) A national bank or Federal savings association must assign a 100 percent risk weight to all assets not specifically assigned a different risk weight under this subpart and that are not deducted from tier 1 or tier 2 capital pursuant to § 3.22.

(6) Notwithstanding the requirements of this section, a national bank or Federal savings association may assign an asset that is not included in one of the categories provided in this section to the risk weight category applicable under the capital rules applicable to bank holding companies and savings and loan holding companies at 12 CFR part 217, provided that all of the following conditions apply:

(i) The national bank or Federal savings association is not authorized to hold the asset under applicable law other than debt previously contracted or similar authority; and

(ii) The risks associated with the asset are substantially similar to the risks of assets that are otherwise assigned to a risk weight category of less than 100 percent under this subpart.

[78 FR 62157, 62273, Oct. 11, 2013, as amended at 84 FR 35254, July 22, 2019; 85 FR 4402, Jan. 24, 2020; 85 FR 20393, Apr. 13, 2020]
