##### ยง 3103.4-3 Heavy oil royalty reductions. #####

(a) *Certification.* The operator/payor must use the applicable royalty rate when submitting the required royalty reports/payments to the Minerals Management Service (MMS). In submitting royalty reports/payments using a royalty rate reduction the operator/payor must certify that the API oil gravity for the initial and subsequent 12-month periods was not subject to manipulation or adulteration and the royalty rate was determined in accordance with the requirements and procedures.

(b) *Agency action.* If an operator/payor incorrectly calculates the royalty rate, the BLM will determine the correct rate and notify the operator/payor in writing. Any additional royalties due are payable to MMS immediately upon receipt of this notice. Late payment or underpayment charges will be assessed in accordance with 30 CFR 218.102. The BLM will terminate a royalty rate reduction for a property if BLM determines that the API oil gravity was manipulated or adulterated by the operator/payor. Terminations of royalty rate reductions for individual properties will be effective on the effective date of the royalty rate reduction resulting from a manipulated or adulterated API oil gravity so that the termination will be retroactive to the effective date of the improper reduction. The operator/payor must pay the difference in royalty resulting from the retroactive application of the non-manipulated rate. The late payment or underpayment charges will assessed in accordance with 30 CFR 218.102.

[61 FR 4750, Feb. 8, 1996, as amended at 75 FR 61626, Oct. 6, 2010]