cfr/title-14-Aeronautics-Space/chapter-V-National-Aeronautics-Space-Administration/part-1259-National-Space-Grant-College-Fellowship-Program/subpart-6-Space-Grant-Review-Panel/section-1259.603.md, before:

##### § 1259.603 Responsibilities. #####

Link to an amendment published at 82 FR 35442, July 31, 2017.

(a) The Panel shall advise the Administrator and the Director, Educational Affairs Division, with respect to:

(1) Applications or proposals for, and performance under, awards made pursuant to sections 206 and 207 of Title II of the Act;

(2) The Space Grant fellowship program;

(3) The designation and operation of Space Grant colleges and Space Grant regional consortia, and the operation of Space Grant and fellowship programs;

(4) The formulation and application of the planning guidelines and priorities pursuant to section 205 (a) and (b)(1) of Title II of the Act; and

(5) Such other matters as the Administrator refers to the Panel for review and advice.

(b) The Panel shall meet biannually and at any other time at the call of the Chair or upon a request from a majority of the voting members or at the call of the Administrator.

(c) The Panel may exercise such powers as are reasonably necessary in order to carry out the duties enumerated in paragraph (a) of this section.

(d) The Director, Educational Affairs Division, shall appoint an Executive Secretary who shall perform administrative duties for the Panel.

(e) Federal members of the Panel will have their agencies reimbursed by NASA for any travel costs and per diem expenses required to attend Panel meetings.

(f) Nonfederal members of the Panel will be reimbursed by NASA for travel costs and per diem expenses required to attend Panel meetings.

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2017-09-29 issue
Title: 14: Aeronautics and Space - Sections changed: 22
Title: 17: Commodity and Securities Exchanges - Sections changed: 2
Title: 19: Customs Duties - Sections changed: 1
Title: 21: Food and Drugs - Sections changed: 2
Title: 40: Protection of Environment - Sections changed: 23
Title: 50: Wildlife and Fisheries - Sections changed: 3

cfr/title-14-Aeronautics-Space/chapter-V-National-Aeronautics-Space-Administration/part-1259-National-Space-Grant-College-Fellowship-Program/subpart-6-Space-Grant-Review-Panel/section-1259.603.md, after:

##### § 1259.603 Responsibilities. #####

(a) The Panel shall advise the Administrator and designee, Director, NASA Space Grant Program, with respect to:

(1) Applications or proposals for, and performance under, awards made pursuant to sections 206 and 207 of Title II of the Act;

(2) The Space Grant fellowship program;

(3) The designation and operation of Space Grant colleges and Space Grant regional consortia, and the operation of Space Grant and fellowship programs;

(4) The formulation and application of the planning guidelines and priorities pursuant to section 205 (a) and (b)(1) of Title II of the Act; and

(5) Such other matters as the Administrator refers to the Panel for review and advice.

(b) The Panel shall meet biannually and at any other time at the call of the Chair or upon a request from a majority of the voting members or at the call of the Administrator.

(c) The Panel may exercise such powers as reasonably necessary in order to carry out the duties enumerated in paragraph (a) of this section.

(d) The Director, NASA Space Grant Program, shall appoint an Executive Secretary who shall perform administrative duties for the Panel.

(e) Federal members of the Panel will have their agencies reimbursed by NASA for any travel costs and per diem expenses required to attend Panel meetings.

(f) Nonfederal members of the Panel will be reimbursed by NASA for travel costs and per diem expenses required to attend Panel meetings.

[54 FR 19880, May 9, 1989, as amended at 82 FR 35442, July 31, 2017]
