##### § 10.461 Retail packaging materials and containers. #####

Packaging materials and containers in which a good is packaged for retail sale, if classified with the good for which preferential tariff treatment under the US-CFTA is claimed, will be disregarded in determining whether all non-originating materials used in the production of the good undergo the applicable change in tariff classification set out in General Note 26(n), HTSUS. If the good is subject to a regional value content requirement, the value of such packaging materials and containers will be taken into account as originating or non-originating materials, as the case may be, in calculating the regional value content of the good.

Example 1.Chilean Producer A of good C imports 100 non-originating blister packages to be used as retail packaging for good C. As provided in § 10.455(a)(1), the value of the blister packages is their adjusted value, which in this case is $10. Good C has a regional value content requirement. The United States importer of good C decides to use the build-down method, RVC = ((AV-VNM)/AV) × 100 (*see* § 10.454(a) of this subpart), in determining whether good C satisfies the regional value content requirement. In applying this method, the non-originating blister packages are taken into account as non-originating. As such, their $10 adjusted value is included in the VNM, value of non-originating materials, of good C.Example 2.Same facts as in Example 1, but the blister packages are originating. In this case, the adjusted value of the originating blister packages would not be included as part of the VNM of good C under the build-down method. However, if the United States importer had used the build-up method, RVC = (VOM/AV) × 100 (*see* § 10.454(b)), the adjusted value of the blister packaging would be included as part of the VOM, value of originating material.[CBP Dec. 05-07, 70 FR 10873, Mar. 7, 2005, as amended by CBP Dec. 06-39, 71 FR 76134, Dec. 20, 2006]