##### ยง 1003.43 Notice. #####

(a) An applicant for stay shall notify each person readily identifiable as one who will be directly aggrieved by the OHA action sought that it has filed an Application for Stay. The applicant shall serve the application on each identified person and shall notify each such person that the OHA will receive and endeavor to consider, subject to time constraints imposed by the urgency of the proceeding, written comments on the application that are submitted immediately.

(b) Any person submitting written comments to the OHA with respect to an application filed under this subpart shall send a copy of the comments, or a copy from which confidential information has been deleted in accordance with ยง 1003.9(f), to the applicant. The person shall certify to the OHA that he has complied with the requirements of this paragraph. The OHA may notify other persons participating in the proceeding of such comments and provide an opportunity for such persons to respond.

(c) The OHA shall require the applicant to take reasonable measures depending on the circumstances and urgency of the case to notify each person readily identified as one that would be directly aggrieved by the OHA action sought of the date, time and place of any hearing or other proceedings in the matter. However, if the Director of the OHA concludes that the circumstances presented by the applicant justify immediate action, the OHA may issue a Decision on the Application for Stay prior to receipt of written comments or the oral presentation of views by adversely affected parties.