cfr/title-31-Money-Finance-Treasury/subtitle-A-Office-Secretary-Treasury/part-35-Pandemic-Relief-Programs/subpart-A-Coronavirus-State-Local-Fiscal-Recovery-Funds/section-35.5.md, before:

##### § 35.5 Use of funds. #####

(a) *In general.* A recipient may only use funds for the purposes enumerated in § 35.6 (b) through (f) to cover costs incurred during the period beginning March 3, 2021, and ending December 31, 2024, subject to the restrictions set forth in sections 602(c)(2) and 603(c)(2) of the Social Security Act, as applicable. A recipient may only use funds for the purposes enumerated in § 35.6 (g) through (h) to cover costs incurred during the period beginning December 29, 2022, and ending December 31, 2024, subject to the restrictions set forth in sections 602(c)(2), 602(c)(5)(C), 603(c)(2), and 603(c)(6)(B) of the Social Security Act, as applicable.

(b) *Costs incurred.* A cost shall be considered to have been incurred for purposes of paragraph (a) of this section if the recipient has incurred an obligation with respect to such cost by December 31, 2024.

(c) *Return of funds.* A recipient must return any funds not obligated by December 31, 2024. A recipient must return funds obligated for a use identified in § 35.6 (b) through (g) by December 31, 2024, but not expended by December 31, 2026. A recipient must return funds obligated for a use identified in § 35.6 (h) by December 31, 2024, but not expended by September 30, 2026.

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2023-11-20 issue
Title: 48: Federal Acquisition Regulations System - Sections changed: 2
Title: 31: Money and Finance: Treasury - Sections changed: 3
Title: 40: Protection of Environment - Sections changed: 14
Title: 47: Telecommunication - Sections changed: 1
Title: 50: Wildlife and Fisheries - Sections changed: 8

cfr/title-31-Money-Finance-Treasury/subtitle-A-Office-Secretary-Treasury/part-35-Pandemic-Relief-Programs/subpart-A-Coronavirus-State-Local-Fiscal-Recovery-Funds/section-35.5.md, after:

##### § 35.5 Use of funds. #####

(a) *In general.* A recipient may only use funds for the purposes enumerated in § 35.6 (b) through (f) to cover costs incurred during the period beginning March 3, 2021, and ending December 31, 2024, subject to the restrictions set forth in sections 602(c)(2) and 603(c)(2) of the Social Security Act, as applicable. A recipient may only use funds for the purposes enumerated in § 35.6 (g) through (h) to cover costs incurred during the period beginning December 29, 2022, and ending December 31, 2024, subject to the restrictions set forth in sections 602(c)(2), 602(c)(5)(C), 603(c)(2), and 603(c)(6)(B) of the Social Security Act, as applicable.

(b) *Costs incurred.* A cost shall be considered to have been incurred for purposes of paragraph (a) of this section if the recipient has incurred an obligation with respect to such cost by December 31, 2024.

(c) *Return of funds.* A recipient must return any funds that have not been obligated by December 31, 2024, pursuant to orders placed for property and services or entry into contracts, subawards, and similar transactions that require payment other than funds in the amount reported to Treasury by April 30, 2024, as the estimate of funds that the recipient will expend to comply with a requirement under federal law or regulation or provision of the award terms and conditions to which a recipient becomes subject as a result of receiving or expending funds. A recipient must return funds obligated for a use identified in § 35.6(b) through (g) by December 31, 2024, but not expended by December 31, 2026. A recipient must return funds obligated for a use identified in § 35.6(h) by December 31, 2024, but not expended by September 30, 2026. A recipient must return funds in the amount reported to Treasury by April 30, 2024, as referenced above, but not expended by December 31, 2026, other than administrative expenses necessary to close out the award.

[88 FR 65026, Sept. 20, 2023, as amended at 88 FR 80589, Nov. 20, 2023]
