##### § 1.1402(e)(3)-1 Effective date of waiver certificate. #####

(a) *Filed before August 31, 1957*—(1) *In general.* A certificate on Form 2031 filed by an individual before August 31, 1957, in accordance with the provisions of section 1402(e) in effect at the time the certificate is filed, shall be effective for the first taxable year with respect to which it is filed, and all subsequent taxable years. In order for a certificate filed by an individual before August 31, 1957, to be effective under section 1402(e), the certificate must be made effective for either the first or second taxable year ending after 1954 in which the individual has net earnings from self-employment of $400 or more (determined as provided in paragraph (c) of § 1.1402(e)(2)-1) some part of which is derived from service of the character with respect to which an election may be made. However, a certificate on Form 2031, filed before August 31, 1957, even though filed within the time specified in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of § 1.1402(e)(2)-1, may not be effective, except as provided in subparagraph (2) of this paragraph, for any taxable year with respect to which the due date for filing the individual's income tax return (including any extension thereof) has expired at the time such certificate is filed. Further, a certificate on Form 2031 may not be effective for any taxable year ending before 1955. In order for a certificate filed before August 31, 1957, except for the filing of a supplemental certificate, to be effective for the first or second taxable year ending after 1954 in which the individual has net earnings from self-employment (determined as provided in paragraph (c) of § 1.1402(e)(2)-1) some part of which is derived from service of the character with respect to which an election may be made, the certificate on Form 2031 must be filed on or before the due date for filing the income tax return of the individual for such first or second taxable year, respectively, or any extension thereof.

(2) *Supplemental certificates*—(i) *Filed before due date of 1958 return.* If under subparagraph (1) of this paragraph the certificate is effective only for the individual's third or fourth taxable year ending after 1954 and all succeeding taxable years, the individual may make such a certificate effective for his first taxable year ending after 1955 and all succeeding taxable years by filing a supplemental certificate on Form 2031. To be valid the supplemental certificate must be filed after August 30, 1957, and on or before the due date of the return (including any extension thereof) for his second taxable year ending after 1956 and must be otherwise in accordance with § 1.1402(e)(1)-1.

Example.M, who files his income tax returns on a calendar year basis, was ordained as a minister in 1956, and his net earnings from service performed in the exercise of his ministry during such year were $400 or more. M had no net earnings from the exercise of his ministry during 1957. On July 15, 1957, M filed a waiver certificate and indicated thereon that it was to become effective for the taxable year 1958. At the time of filing, the certificate was effective for 1958 and all succeeding taxable years. Since the certificate was not filed on or before April 15, 1957 (the due date of M's income tax return for the taxable year 1956), and since there was no extension of time for filing his 1956 income tax return, the certificate was not, at the time of filing, effective for the taxable year 1956. M files a supplemental certificate on April 15, 1958. By the filing of the supplemental certificate, the certificate filed by M on July 15, 1957, was made effective for the year 1956 and all succeeding taxable years.

(ii) *Filed after September 13, 1960, and on or before April 16, 1962.* If under subparagraph (1) of this paragraph the certificate is effective only for the individual's first taxable year ending after 1956 and all succeeding taxable years, the individual may make such certificate effective for his first taxable year ending after 1955 and all succeeding taxable years by:

(*a*) Filing a supplemental certificate on Form 2031 after September 13, 1960, and before April 17, 1962;

(*b*) Paying on or before April 16, 1962, the tax under section 1401 in respect of all the individual's self-employment income (except for underpayments of tax attributable to errors made in good faith) for his first taxable year ending after 1955; and

(*c*) By repaying on or before April 16, 1962, the amount of any refund (including any interest paid under section 6611) that has been made of any such tax which (but for section 1402(e)(3)(B)) is an overpayment.

Any payment or repayment described in section 1402(e)(3)(B) and in this subparagraph shall not constitute an overpayment within the meaning of section 6401 which relates to amounts treated as overpayments. See section 6401 and the regulations thereunder in part 301 of this chapter (Regulations on Procedure and Administration).Example.M, who files his income tax returns on a calendar year basis, was ordained as a minister in 1956, and his net earnings from service performed in the exercise of his ministry during each of the years 1956 and 1957 were $400 or more. On July 15, 1957, M filed a waiver certificate which became effective, at the time of filing, for 1957 and all succeeding taxable years. Since the certificate was not filed on or before April 15, 1957 (the due date of M's income tax return for the taxable year 1956), and since there was no extension of time for filing his 1956 income tax return, the certificate was not, at the time of filing, effective for the taxable year 1956. M files a supplemental certificate on April 17, 1961. If, in addition to the filing of the supplemental certificate, M pays on or before April 16, 1962, the self-employment tax in respect of all his self-employment income (except for underpayments of tax attributable to errors made in good faith) for his taxable year 1956, and repays, on or before April 16, 1962, the amount of any refund (including any interest paid under section 6611) that has been made of any such tax which (but for section 1402(e)(3)(B)) is an overpayment, the certificate filed by M on July 15, 1957, becomes effective for the year 1956 and all succeeding taxable years.

(b) *Filed after August 30, 1957, and before the due date of the 1958 return.* A certificate on Form 2031 filed by an individual after August 30, 1957, but on or before the due date of the return (including any extension thereof) for his second taxable year ending after 1956, in accordance with the provisions of section 1402(e) in effect at the time the certificate is filed, shall be effective for his first taxable year ending after 1955, and all subsequent taxable years.

(c) *Filed after due date of 1958 return*—(1) *In general.* Except as otherwise provided in § 1.1402(e)(5)-1 (applicable to certificates filed within the period September 14, 1960, to April 16, 1962, inclusive) and in subparagraphs (2) and (3) of this paragraph, a certificate on Form 2031 filed by an individual in accordance with the provisions of §§ 1.1402(e)(1)-1 and 1.1402(e)(2)-1, inclusive, after the due date of the return (including any extension thereof) for his second taxable year ending after 1956 shall be effective for the taxable year immediately preceding the earliest taxable year for which, at the time the certificate is filed, the period for filing a return (including any extension thereof) has not expired, and for all succeeding taxable years.

Example.M, a duly ordained minister of a church, makes his income tax returns on the basis of a calendar year. M has not been granted an extension of time for filing any return. On April 15, 1963, the due date of his income tax return for 1962, M files a waiver certificate pursuant to § 1.1402(e)(1)-1 and within the time limitation set forth in § 1.1402(e)(2)-1. On April 15, 1963, the year 1962 is the earliest taxable year for which the period for filing a return has not expired. Consequently, M's certificate is effective for 1961 and all succeeding taxable years. M must report and pay any self-employment tax due for 1961 and 1962. (The tax, if any, for 1962 is due on April 15, 1963.) Inasmuch as the due date of the tax for 1961 is April 16, 1962, M must pay interest on any tax due for 1961. For provisions relating to such interest, see § 301.6601-1 of Part 301 of this chapter (Regulations on Procedure and Administration).

(2) *Filed after October 13, 1964, and on or before the due date of return for second taxable year ending after 1962.* A certificate on Form 2031 filed by an individual in accordance with the provisions of §§ 1.1402(e)(1)-1 and 1.1402(e)(2)-1, inclusive, after October 13, 1964, and on or before the due date of the return (including any extension thereof) for his second taxable year ending after 1962 (April 15, 1965, in the case of a calendar year taxpayer who has not been granted an extension of time for filing his income tax return for 1964) shall be effective for his first taxable year ending after 1961 and all succeeding taxable years.

Example.M, a duly ordained minister of a church, makes his income tax returns on the basis of a calendar year. M has not been granted an extension of time for filing any return. On April 15, 1965, the due date of his income tax return for 1964, M files a waiver certificate pursuant to § 1.1402(e)(1)-1 and within the time limitation set forth in § 1.1402(e)(2)-1. M's certificate is effective for 1962 and all succeeding taxable years, and he must report and pay any self-employment tax due for 1962, 1963, and 1964. (The tax, if any, for 1964 is due on April 15, 1965.) Inasmuch as the due dates of the tax for 1962 and 1963 are April 15, 1963, and April 15, 1964, respectively, M must pay interest on any tax due for 1962 or 1963. For provisions relating to such interest, see § 301.6601-1 of Part 301 of this chapter (Regulations on Procedure and Administration).

(3) *Filed after July 30, 1965, and on or before the due date of return for second taxable year ending after 1963.* A certificate on Form 2031 filed by an individual in accordance with the provisions of §§ 1.1402(e)(1)-1 and 1.1402(e)(2)-1, inclusive, after July 30, 1965, and on or before the due date of the return (including any extension thereof) for his second taxable year ending after 1963 (Apr. 15, 1966, in the case of a calendar year taxpayer who has not been granted an extension of time for filing his income tax return for 1965) shall be effective for his first taxable year ending after 1962 and all succeeding taxable years.

Example.M, a duly ordained minister of a church, makes his income tax returns on the basis of a calendar year. M has not been granted an extension of time for filing any return. On April 15, 1966, the due date of his income tax return for 1965, M files a waiver certificate pursuant to § 1.1402(e)(1)-1 and within the time limitation set forth in § 1.1402(e)(2)-1. M's certificate is effective for 1963 and all succeeding taxable years, and he must report and pay any self-employment tax due for 1963, 1964, and 1965. (The tax, if any, for 1965 is due on April 15, 1966.) Inasmuch as the due dates of the tax for 1963 and 1964 are April 15, 1964, and April 15, 1965, respectively, M must pay interest on any tax due for 1963 or 1964. For provisions relating to such interest, see § 301.6601-1 of Part 301 of this chapter (Regulations on Procedure and Administration).

(d) *Election irrevocable.* An election which has become effective pursuant to this section is irrevocable. A certificate may not be withdrawn after June 30, 1961.

[T.D. 6691, 28 FR 12796, Dec. 3, 1963, as amended by T.D. 6978, 33 FR 15939, Oct. 30, 1968]