##### § 111.96 Fees. #####

Link to an amendment published at 82 FR 29719, June 30, 2017.

(a) *License fee; examination fee; fingerprint fee.* Each applicant for a broker's license pursuant to § 111.12 must pay a fee of $200 to defray the costs to Customs in processing the application. Each individual who intends to take the written examination provided for in § 111.13 must pay a $200 examination fee before taking the examination. An individual who submits an application for a license must also pay a fingerprint check and processing fee; the port director will inform the applicant of the current Federal Bureau of Investigation fee for conducting fingerprint checks and the Customs fingerprint processing fee, the total of which must be paid to Customs before further processing of the application will occur.

(b) *Permit fee.* A fee of $100 must be paid in connection with each permit application under § 111.19 to defray the costs of processing the application, including an application for reinstatement of a permit that was revoked by operation of law or otherwise.

(c) *User fee.* Payment of an annual user fee of $138 is required for each permit, including a national permit under § 111.19(f), granted to an individual, partnership, association, or corporate broker. The user fee is payable when an initial district permit is issued concurrently with a license under § 111.19(a), or in connection with the filing of an application for a permit under § 111.19 (b) or (f), and for each subsequent calendar year at the port through which the broker was granted the permit or at the port referred to in § 111.19(c) in the case of a national permit. The user fee must be paid by the due date as published annually in the Federal Register, and must be remitted in accordance with the procedures set forth in § 24.22(i) of this chapter. When a broker submits an application for a permit or is issued an initial district permit under § 111.19, the full $138 user fee must be remitted with the application or when the initial district permit is issued, regardless of the point during the calendar year at which the application is submitted or the initial district permit is issued. If a broker fails to pay the annual user fee by the published due date, the appropriate port director will notify the broker in writing of the failure to pay and will revoke the permit to operate. The notice will constitute revocation of the permit.

(d) *Status report fee.* The status report required under § 111.30(d) must be accompanied by a fee of $100 to defray the costs of administering the reporting requirement.

(e) *Method of payment.* All fees prescribed under this section must be paid by check or money order payable to the United States Customs Service.

[T.D. 00-17, 65 FR 13891, Mar. 15, 2000, as amended by CBP Dec. 03-13, 68 FR 43630, July 24, 2003; 72 FR 3734, Jan. 26, 2007]