cfr/title-12-Banks-Banking/chapter-I-Comptroller-Currency-Department-Treasury/part-19-Rules-Practice-Procedure/subpart-A-Uniform-Rules-Practice-Procedure/section-19.12.md, before:

##### § 19.12 Construction of time limits. #####

(a) *General rule.* In computing any period of time prescribed by this subpart, the date of the act or event that commences the designated period of time is not included. The last day so computed is included unless it is a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday. When the last day is a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday, the period runs until the end of the next day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday. Intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and Federal holidays are included in the computation of time. However, when the time period within which an act is to be performed is ten days or less, not including any additional time allowed for in paragraph (c) of this section, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and Federal holidays are not included.

(b) *When papers are deemed to be filed or served.* (1) Filing and service are deemed to be effective:

(i) In the case of personal service or same day commercial courier delivery, upon actual service;

(ii) In the case of overnight commercial delivery service, U.S. Express Mail delivery, or first class, registered, or certified mail, upon deposit in or delivery to an appropriate point of collection;

(iii) In the case of transmission by electronic media, as specified by the authority receiving the filing, in the case of filing, and as agreed among the parties, in the case of service.

(2) The effective filing and service dates specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section may be modified by the Comptroller or administrative law judge in the case of filing or by agreement of the parties in the case of service.

(c) *Calculation of time for service and filing of responsive papers.* Whenever a time limit is measured by a prescribed period from the service of any notice or paper, the applicable time limits are calculated as follows:

(1) If service is made by first class, registered, or certified mail, add three calendar days to the prescribed period;

(2) If service is made by express mail or overnight delivery service, add one calendar day to the prescribed period; or

(3) If service is made by electronic media transmission, add one calendar day to the prescribed period, unless otherwise determined by the Comptroller or the administrative law judge in the case of filing, or by agreement among the parties in the case of service.

[56 FR 38028, Aug. 9, 1991, as amended at 61 FR 20335, May 6, 1996]

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2024-04-01 issue
Title: 5: Administrative Personnel - Sections changed: 10
Title: 14: Aeronautics and Space - Sections changed: 14
Title: 8: Aliens and Nationality - Sections changed: 28
Title: 12: Banks and Banking - Sections changed: 415
Title: 15: Commerce and Foreign Trade - Sections changed: 1
Title: 16: Commercial Practices - Sections changed: 3
Title: 29: Labor - Sections changed: 3
Title: 33: Navigation and Navigable Waters - Sections changed: 1
Title: 39: Postal Service - Sections changed: 2
Title: 40: Protection of Environment - Sections changed: 8
Title: 46: Shipping - Sections changed: 1
Title: 50: Wildlife and Fisheries - Sections changed: 16

cfr/title-12-Banks-Banking/chapter-I-Comptroller-Currency-Department-Treasury/part-19-Rules-Practice-Procedure/subpart-A-Uniform-Rules-Practice-Procedure/section-19.12.md, after:

##### § 19.12 Construction of time limits. #####

(a) *General rule.* In computing any period of time prescribed by this subpart, the date of the act or event that commences the designated period of time is not included. The last day so computed is included unless it is a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday. When the last day is a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday, the period runs until the end of the next day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday. Intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and Federal holidays are included in the computation of time. However, when the time period within which an act is to be performed is ten days or less, not including any additional time allowed for in paragraph (c) of this section, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and Federal holidays are not included.

(b) *When papers are deemed to be filed or served.*—(1) Filing and service are deemed to be effective:

(i) In the case of transmission by electronic mail or other electronic means, upon transmittal by the serving party;

(ii) In the case of overnight delivery service or first class, registered, or certified mail, upon deposit in or delivery to an appropriate point of collection; or

(iii) In the case of personal service or same day courier delivery, upon actual service.

(2) The effective filing and service dates specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section may be modified by the Comptroller or ALJ in the case of filing or by agreement of the parties in the case of service.

(c) *Calculation of time for service and filing of responsive papers.* Whenever a time limit is measured by a prescribed period from the service of any notice or paper, the applicable time limits are calculated as follows:

(1) If service is made by electronic mail or other electronic means or by same day courier delivery, add one calendar day to the prescribed period;

(2) If service is made by overnight delivery service, add two calendar days to the prescribed period; or

(3) If service is made by first class, registered, or certified mail, add three calendar days to the prescribed period.
