##### § 510.500 Financial arrangements under the CJR model. #####

(a) *General.* (1) A participant hospital may elect to enter into sharing arrangements.

(2) A participant hospital must not make a gainsharing payment or receive an alignment payment except in accordance with a sharing arrangement. Any gainsharing payments or alignment payments made in accordance with a sharing arrangement must be made only from the participant hospital to the CJR collaborator with whom the participant hospital has signed a collaborator agreement containing a sharing arrangement.

(3) CMS may review any sharing arrangement for compliance with the requirements of this part and to ensure that it does not pose a risk to beneficiary access, beneficiary freedom of choice, or quality of care.

(4) The participant hospital has ultimate responsibility for fully complying with all provisions of the CJR model.

(5) If a participant hospital enters into a sharing arrangement, it must update its compliance program to include oversight of sharing arrangements and compliance with the requirements of the CJR model.

(6) The board or other governing body of the participant hospital must have responsibility for overseeing the participant hospital's participation in the CJR model, its arrangements with CJR collaborators, its payment of gainsharing payments and receipt of alignment payments, and its use of beneficiary incentives in the CJR model.

(7) Participant hospitals must develop and maintain a written set of policies for selecting providers and suppliers for sharing gains and risk as CJR collaborators. This set of policies must contain criteria for selection of CJR collaborators related to, and inclusive of, the quality of care to be delivered by the CJR collaborator to beneficiaries during a CJR episode. The selection criteria cannot be based directly or indirectly on the volume or value of referrals or business otherwise generated by, between or among the participant hospital, CJR collaborators, and any individual or entity affiliated with a participant hospital or CJR collaborator. All collaborator agreements must require the CJR collaborator to have met, or agree to meet, the quality criteria for selection.

(b) *Sharing arrangement requirements.* Each sharing arrangement must comply with the following criteria:

(1) The sharing arrangement must be set forth in a collaborator agreement that complies with the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section.

(2) The sharing arrangement must comply with all relevant laws and regulations, including the applicable fraud and abuse laws and all applicable payment and coverage requirements.

(3) An individual or entity's participation in a sharing arrangement must be voluntary and without penalty for nonparticipation.

(4) The parties must enter into a sharing arrangement before care is furnished to CJR beneficiaries under the terms of the sharing arrangement.

(5)(i) To be eligible to receive a gainsharing payment, a CJR collaborator must meet quality criteria for the calendar year for which the gainsharing payment is determined by the participant hospital. The quality criteria must be established by the participant hospital and directly related to CJR episodes of care.

(ii) To be eligible to receive a gainsharing payment or make an alignment payment, a CJR collaborator other than a PGP must directly furnish a billable service to a CJR beneficiary during a CJR episode that occurred in the calendar year in which the savings or loss was created.

(iii) To be eligible to receive a gainsharing payment, a PGP that is a CJR collaborator must meet the following criteria:

(A) The PGP must have billed for an item or service that was rendered by one or more members of the PGP to a CJR beneficiary during a CJR episode that occurred during the calendar year in which the participant hospital's internal cost savings was generated, or to which the NPRA applied, the latter of which is contained in a reconciliation payment.

(B) The PGP must contribute to a participant hospital's care redesign in the CJR model and be clinically involved in the care of CJR beneficiaries. The following is a non-exhaustive list of ways in which a PGP might be clinically involved in the care of CJR beneficiaries:

(*1*) Provide care coordination services to CJR beneficiaries during and/or after inpatient admission.

(*2*) Engage with a participant hospital in care redesign strategies, and actually perform a role in implementing such strategies, that are designed to improve the quality of care for LEJR episodes and reduce the LEJR episode spending.

(*3*) In coordination with other providers and suppliers (such as members of the PGP, participant hospitals, post-acute care providers), implement strategies designed to address and manage the comorbidities of CJR beneficiaries.

(6) No entity or individual, whether a party to a collaborator agreement or not, may condition the opportunity to make or receive gainsharing payments or to make or receive alignment payments on the volume or value of referrals or business otherwise generated by, between or among the participant hospital, CJR collaborators, and any individual or entity affiliated with a participant hospital or CJR collaborator.

(7) Gainsharing payments, if any, must be -

(i) Derived solely from reconciliation payments, or internal cost savings, or both;

(ii) Actually and proportionally related to the care of beneficiaries in a CJR episode;

(iii) Distributed on an annual basis (not more than once per calendar year);

(iv) Not be a loan, advance payments, or payments for referrals or other business; and

(v) Be clearly identified and comply with all provisions in this part, as well as all applicable laws, statutes, and rules.

(8) Alignment payments from a CJR collaborator to a participant hospital may be made at any interval that is agreed upon by both parties, and must -

(i) Not be issued, distributed, or paid prior to the calculation by CMS of a repayment amount reflected in a reconciliation report; and

(ii) Not be a loan, advance payments, or payments for referrals or other business.

(9) A participant hospital must not make a gainsharing payment to a CJR collaborator that is subject to any action for noncompliance with this part or the fraud and abuse laws, or for the provision of substandard care in CJR episodes or other integrity problems.

(10) In a calendar year, the aggregate amount of all gainsharing payments distributed by a participant hospital that are derived from a CJR reconciliation payment may not exceed the amount of the reconciliation payment the participant hospital receives from CMS.

(11) In a calendar year, the aggregate amount of all alignment payments received by the participant hospital must not exceed 50 percent of the participant hospital's repayment amount. No alignment payments may be collected by a participant hospital if it does not owe a repayment amount.

(12) The aggregate amount of all alignment payments from any one CJR collaborator to a participant hospital must not be greater than 25 percent of the participant hospital's repayment amount.

(13) A sharing arrangement must not induce the participant hospital, CJR collaborator, or any employees or contractors of the participant hospital or CJR collaborator to reduce or limit medically necessary services to any Medicare beneficiary.

(14) A sharing arrangement must not restrict the ability of a CJR collaborator to make decisions in the best interests of its patients, including the selection of devices, supplies, and treatments.

(15) The methodology for determining gainsharing payments must be based, at least in part, on criteria related to, and inclusive of, the quality of care to be delivered to CJR beneficiaries during an episode and must not directly account for the volume or value of referrals or business otherwise generated by, between or among the participant hospital, CJR collaborators, and any individual or entity affiliated with a participant hospital or CJR collaborator.

(16) The methodology for determining alignment payments must not directly account for the volume or value of referrals or business otherwise generated by, between or among the participant hospital, CJR collaborators, and any individual or entity affiliated with a participant hospital or CJR collaborator.

(17) The total amount of a gainsharing payment for a calendar year paid to an individual physician or nonphysician practitioner who is a CJR collaborator must not exceed 50 percent of the total Medicare approved amounts under the Physician Fee Schedule (PFS) for services furnished to the participant hospital's CJR beneficiaries during a CJR episode by that physician or nonphysician practitioner.

(18) The total amount of gainsharing payments for a calendar year paid to a PGP that is a CJR collaborator must not exceed 50 percent of the total Medicare approved amounts under the Physician Fee Schedule for services that are billed by the PGP and furnished during a calendar year by members of the PGP to the participant hospital's CJR beneficiaries during CJR episodes.

(19) The participant hospital's determination of internal cost savings must satisfy the following criteria:

(i) Internal cost savings are calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and Government Auditing Standards (The Yellow Book).

(ii) All amounts determined to be internal cost savings must reflect actual, internal cost savings achieved by the participant hospital through implementation of care redesign elements identified and documented by the participant hospital. Internal cost savings does not include savings realized by any individual or entity that is not the participant hospital.

(iii) Internal cost savings may not reflect “paper” savings from accounting conventions or past investment in fixed costs.

(20) All gainsharing payments and any alignment payments must meet the requirements set forth in this section and be administered by the participant hospital in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. In no event may the participant hospital receive any amounts from a CJR collaborator under a sharing arrangement that are not alignment payments.

(21) All gainsharing payments and alignment payments must be made through EFT.

(c) *Contents of collaborator agreement.* Each collaborator agreement must satisfy the following criteria:

(1) The collaborator agreement must contain a description of the sharing arrangement between the participant hospital and the CJR collaborator regarding gainsharing payments and alignment payments. This description must specify the following:

(i) The parties to the sharing arrangement.

(ii) The date of the sharing arrangement.

(iii) The purpose and scope of the sharing arrangement.

(iv) The financial or economic terms of the sharing arrangement, including the frequency of payment, and the methodology and accounting formula for determining the amount of any gainsharing payment or alignment payment.

(v) Safeguards to ensure that alignment payments are made solely for purposes related to sharing responsibility for funds needed to repay Medicare in the CJR model.

(vi) Plans regarding care redesign.

(vii) Changes in care coordination or delivery that is applied to the participant hospital or CJR collaborators or both.

(viii) A description of how success will be measured.

(ix) Management and staffing information, including type of personnel or contractors that will be primarily responsible for carrying out changes to care under the CJR model.

(2) The collaborator agreement must contain a requirement that the CJR collaborator and its employees and contractors must comply with the applicable provisions of this part (including requirements regarding beneficiary notifications, access to records, record retention, and participation in any evaluation, monitoring, compliance, and enforcement activities performed by CMS or its designees) and all other applicable laws and regulations.

(3) The collaborator agreement must require the CJR collaborator to be in compliance with all Medicare provider enrollment requirements at § 424.500 of this chapter, including having a valid and active TIN or NPI, during the term of the agreement.

(4) The collaborator agreement must require the CJR collaborator to have a compliance program that includes oversight of the collaborator agreement and compliance with the requirements of the CJR model.

(5) The collaborator agreement must set forth a specific methodology for accruing, calculating, and verifying the internal cost savings generated by the participant hospital based on the care redesign elements specifically associated with the particular CJR collaborator.

(i) The methodology must set out the specific care redesign elements to be undertaken by the participant hospital or the CJR collaborator or both.

(ii) The methodology must be based, at least in part, on criteria related to, and inclusive of, the quality of care to be delivered to CJR beneficiaries during an episode and must not directly account for the volume or value of referrals or business otherwise generated by, between or among the participant hospital, CJR collaborators, and any individual or entity affiliated with a participant hospital or CJR collaborator.

(iii) The specific methodologies for accruing and calculating internal cost savings must be transparent, measurable, and verifiable in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and Government Auditing Standards (The Yellow Book).

(6) The collaborator agreement must set forth the quality criteria established by the participant hospital that will be used in determining the gainsharing payment.

(7) The collaborator agreement must require the participant hospital to recoup gainsharing payments paid to CJR collaborators if gainsharing payments contain funds derived from a CMS overpayment on a reconciliation report, or were based on the submission of false or fraudulent data.

(d) *Documentation requirements.* (1) Documentation of any collaborator agreement containing a sharing arrangement must be contemporaneous with the establishment of the arrangement.

(2) A participant hospital must maintain accurate current and historical lists of all CJR collaborators, including names and addresses of each CJR collaborator. The participant hospital must update the lists on at least a quarterly basis and publicly report the current and historical lists of CJR collaborators on a public-facing Web page on the participant hospital's Web site.

(3) The participant hospital and CJR collaborator must maintain contemporaneous documentation of the payment or receipt of any gainsharing payment or alignment payment. The documentation must identify at least the following: The nature of the payment (gainsharing payment or alignment payment); the identity of the parties making and receiving the payment; the date of the payment; the amount of the payment; and the date and amount of any recoupment of all or a portion of a CJR collaborator's gainsharing payment.

(4) The participant hospital must keep records of the following:

(i) Its process for determining and verifying the eligibility of CJR collaborators to participate in Medicare.

(ii) Information confirming the organizational readiness of the participant hospital to measure and track internal cost savings.

(iii) The participant hospital's plan to track internal cost savings.

(iv) Information on the accounting systems used to track internal cost savings.

(v) A description of current health information technology, including systems to track reconciliation payments and internal cost savings.

(vi) The participant hospital's plan to track gainsharing payments and alignment payments.

(vii) Whether the participant hospital recouped any gainsharing payments received by a CJR collaborator that contain funds derived from a CMS overpayment on a reconciliation report, or were based on the submission of false or fraudulent data.

(e) *Access to records and record retention.* All participant hospitals and CJR collaborators who enter into sharing arrangements must:

(1) Provide to CMS, the OIG, and the Comptroller General or their designees scheduled and unscheduled access to all books, contracts, records, documents, and other evidence (including data related to utilization and payments, quality criteria, billings, lists of CJR collaborators, sharing arrangements, and distribution arrangements, and the documentation required under paragraph (d) of this section) sufficient to enable the audit, evaluation, inspection, or investigation of the individual's or entity's compliance with CJR requirements, the quality of services furnished, the obligation to repay any reconciliation payments owed to CMS, or the calculation, distribution, receipt, or recoupment of gainsharing payments, alignment payments, or distribution payments.

(2) Maintain all such books, contracts, records, documents, and other evidence for a period of 10 years from the last day of the participant hospital's participation in the CJR model or from the date of completion of any audit, evaluation, inspection, or investigation, whichever is later, unless -

(i) CMS determines that there is a special need to retain a particular record or group of records for a longer period and notifies the participant hospital at least 30 calendar days before the normal disposition date; or

(ii) There has been a dispute or allegation of fraud or similar fault against the participant hospital or any CJR collaborator, in which case the records must be maintained for an additional 6 years from the date of any resulting final resolution of the dispute or allegation of fraud or similar fault.