##### ยง 17.3 Commission personnel. #####

(a) *Appointment and removal of Commission members.* (1) In accordance with 32 CFR part 9, the Appointing Authority shall appoint at least three but no more than seven members and one or two alternate members. The Appointing Authority may remove members and alternate members for good cause. In the event a member (or alternate member) is removed for good cause, the Appointing Authority may replace the member, direct that an alternate member serve in the place of the original member, direct that proceedings simply continue without the member, or convene a new commission. In the absence of guidance from the Appointing Authority regarding replacement, the Presiding Officer shall select an alternate member to replace the member in question.

(2) The Presiding Officer shall determine if it is necessary to conduct or permit questioning of members (including the Presiding Officer) on issues of whether there is good cause for their removal. The Presiding Officer may permit questioning in any manner he deems appropriate. Consistent with 32 CFR part 9, any such questioning shall be narrowly focused on issues pertaining to whether good cause may exist for the removal of any member.

(3) From time to time, it may be appropriate for a Presiding Officer to forward to the Appointing Authority information and, if appropriate, a recommendation relevant to the question of whether a member (including the Presiding Officer) should be removed for good cause. While awaiting the Appointing Authority's decision on such matter, the Presiding Officer may elect either to hold proceedings in abeyance or to continue. The Presiding Officer may issue any appropriate instructions to the member whose continued service is in question. A military commission shall not engage in deliberations on findings or sentence prior to the Appointing Authority's decision in any case in which the Presiding Officer has recommended a member's removal.

(b) *Military commission security officer.* The Appointing Authority may detail a Security Officer to advise a military commission on matters related to classified and protected information. In addition to any other duties assigned by the Appointing Authority, the Security Officer shall ensure that all classified or protected evidence and information is appropriately safeguarded at all times and that only personnel with the appropriate clearances and authorizations are present when classified or protected materials are presented before military commissions.

(c) *Other military commission personnel.* The Appointing Authority may detail court reporters, interpreters, security personnel, bailiffs, clerks, and any other personnel to a military commission as deemed necessary. In the absence of a detailing by the Appointing Authority, the Chief Prosecutor shall be responsible to ensure the availability of necessary or appropriate personnel to facilitate the impartial and expeditious conduct of full and fair trials by military commission.