##### § 172.2 Applicability and scope. #####

This part:

(a) Applies to the Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD), the Military Departments, the Joint Chiefs of Staff (JCS) and the Joint Staff, the Unified and Specified Commands, the Inspector General of the Department of Defense (IG, DoD), the Defense Agencies, and DoD Field Activities (hereafter referred to collectively as “DoD Components”).

(b) Applies to the proceeds resulting from sales made under authority of Public Law 152 and to the following:

(1) Personal property governed by DoD 4160.21-M.

(2) Surplus Government-owned personal property in the possession of contractors, as described in FAR subpart 45.6.

(3) Recyclable material governed by 10 U.S.C. 2577. Such materials would otherwise be sold as scrap or discarded as waste, but are capable of being reused after undergoing some type of physical or chemical processing. The recycling of hazardous materials or hazardous waste shall be accomplished with due recognition of the types of materials being processed and the applicable regulation governing the handling and disposal of such materials. Qualified recyclable materials do not include the following:

(i) Precious metal-bearing scrap and those items that may be used again for their original purposes or functions without any special processing; e.g., used vehicles, vehicle or machine parts, bottles (not scrap glass), electrical components, and unopened containers of oil or solvent.

(ii) Ships, planes, or weapons that must undergo demilitarization or mutilation before sale.

(iii) Scrap generated from DoD industrial fund (IF) operations that has been routinely sold with the proceeds being used to offset customer costs.

(iv) Bones, fats, and meat trimmings generated by a commissary store or exchange.