##### § 552.2-6 Conversion from stock form depository institution to Federal stock association. #####

(a) With the approval of the Office, any stock depository institution that is, or is eligible to become, a member of a Federal Home Loan Bank, may convert to a Federal stock association, provided that the depository institution, at the time of the conversion, has deposits insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and provided further, that the depository institution, in accomplishing the conversion, complies with all applicable statutes and regulations, including, without limitation, section 5(d) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act. The resulting Federal stock association must conform within the time prescribed by the OTS to the requirements of section 5(c) of the Home Owners' Loan Act. For purposes of this section, the term “depository institution” shall have the meaning set forth at 12 CFR 552.13(b). An application for conversion filed under this section is subject to the procedures for organization of a federal stock organization at § 552.2-1.

(b) Any and all of the assets and other property (whether real, personal, mixed, tangible or intangible, including choses in action, rights, and credits) of the former stock form depository institution become assets and property of the Federal stock association when the conversion occurs. Similarly, any and all of the obligations and debts of or claims against the former stock form depository institution become obligations and debts of and claims against the Federal stock association when the conversion occurs. In effect, the Federal stock association is the same as the former stock form depository institution with respect to any and all assets, property, claims and debts of or claims against the former stock form depository institution.

[59 FR 44623, Aug. 30, 1994, as amended at 66 FR 13006, Mar. 2, 2001; 66 FR 23154, May 8, 2001]