##### § 52.30 Recognition and certification. #####

(a)(1) The Under Secretary for Health will make the determination regarding recognition and the initial determination regarding certification, after receipt of a tentative determination from the director of the VA medical center of jurisdiction, regarding whether the facility and program management meet or do not meet the standards of subpart D of this part. The Under Secretary for Health will notify the official in charge of the program, the State official authorized to oversee operations of the State home, the VA Network Director (10N1-22), Assistant Deputy Under Secretary for Health (10N), and the Chief Consultant, Geriatrics and Extended Care Strategic Healthcare Group (114), of the action taken.

(2) For each facility recognized as a State home, the director of the VA medical center of jurisdiction will certify annually whether the facility and program management meet, provisionally meet, or do not meet the standards of subpart D of this part (this certification should be made every 12 months during the recognition anniversary month or during a month agreed upon by the VA medical center director and officials of the State home facility). A provisional certification will be issued by the director only upon a determination that the facility or program management does not meet one or more of the standards in subpart D of this part, that the deficiencies do not jeopardize the health or safety of the residents, and that the program management and the director have agreed to a plan of correction to remedy the deficiencies in a specified amount of time (not more time than the VA medical center of jurisdiction director determines is reasonable for correcting the specific deficiencies). The director of the VA medical center of jurisdiction will notify the official in charge of the program, the State official authorized to oversee the operations of the State home, the VA Network Director (10N1-22), Assistant Deputy Under Secretary for Health (10N) and the Chief Consultant, Geriatrics and Extended Care Strategic Healthcare Group (114), of the certification, provisional certification, or noncertification.

(b) Once a program has achieved recognition, the recognition will remain in effect unless the State requests that the recognition be withdrawn or the Under Secretary for Health makes a final decision that the facility or program management does not meet the standards of subpart D of this part. Recognition of a program will apply only to the facility as it exists at the time of recognition; any annex, branch, enlargement, expansion, or relocation must be separately recognized.

(c) Both during the application process for recognition and after the Under Secretary for Health has recognized a facility, VA may survey the facility as necessary to determine if the facility and program management comply with the provisions of this part. Generally, VA will provide advance notice to the State before a survey occurs; however, surveys may be conducted without notice. A survey, as necessary, will cover all parts of the facility, and include a review and audit of all records of the program that have a bearing on compliance with any of the requirements of this part (including any reports from State or local entities). For purposes of a survey, at the request of the director of the VA medical center of jurisdiction, the State home adult day care health program management must submit to the director a completed VA Form 10-3567, “Staffing Profile”, which is available at any VA medical center and at *http://www.va.gov/vaforms.* The director of the VA medical center of jurisdiction will designate the VA officials to survey the facility. These officials may include physicians; nurses; pharmacists; dietitians; rehabilitation therapists; social workers; and representatives from health administration, engineering, environmental management systems, and fiscal officers.

(d) If the director of the VA medical center of jurisdiction determines that the State home facility or program management does not meet the standards of this part, the director will notify the State home program manager in writing of the standards not met. The director will send a copy of this notice to the State official authorized to oversee operations of the facility, the VA Network Director (10N1-22), the Assistant Deputy Under Secretary for Health (10N), and the Chief Consultant, Geriatrics and Extended Care Strategic Healthcare Group (114). The letter will include the reasons for the decision and indicate that the State has the right to appeal the decision.

(e) The State must submit an appeal to the Under Secretary for Health in writing within 30 days of receipt of the notice of failure to meet the standards. In its appeal, the State must explain why the determination is inaccurate or incomplete and provide any new and relevant information not previously considered. Any appeal that does not identify a reason for disagreement will be returned to the sender without further consideration.

(f) After reviewing the matter, including any relevant supporting documentation, the Under Secretary for Health will issue a written determination that affirms or reverses the previous determination. If the Under Secretary for Health decides that the State home facility or program management does not meet the standards of subpart D of this part, the Under Secretary for Health will withdraw recognition and stop paying per diem for care provided on and after the date of the decision. The decision of the Under Secretary for Health will constitute a final VA decision. The Under Secretary for Health will send a copy of this decision to the State home facility and to the State official authorized to oversee the operations of the State home.

(g) In the event that a VA survey team or other VA medical center staff identifies any condition at the State home facility that poses an immediate threat to public or patient safety or other information indicating the existence of such a threat, the director of the VA medical center of jurisdiction will immediately report this to the VA Network Director (10N1-22), Assistant Deputy Under Secretary for Health (10N), Chief Consultant, Geriatrics and Extended Care Strategic Healthcare Group (114), and State official authorized to oversee operations of the State home.

(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this paragraph under control number 2900-0160)(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 101, 501, 1741-1743)[67 FR 662, Jan. 7, 2002, as amended at 78 FR 51675, Aug. 21, 2013]