##### § 4274.332 Post award requirements. #####

(a) *Applicability.* Intermediaries receiving loans under this program shall be governed by these regulations, the loan agreement, the approved work plan, security interests, and any other conditions which the Agency may impose in making a loan. Whenever this subpart imposes a requirement on loans made from the “IRP revolving fund,” such requirement shall apply to all loans made by an intermediary to an ultimate recipient from the intermediary's IRP revolving fund for as long as any portion of the intermediary's IRP loan from the Agency remains unpaid. Whenever this subpart imposes a requirement on loans made by intermediaries from “Agency IRP loan funds,” without specific reference to the IRP revolving fund, such requirement shall apply only to loans made by an intermediary using Agency IRP loan funds, and will not apply to loans made from revolved funds.

(b) *Maintenance of IRP revolving fund.* For as long as any part of an IRP loan to an intermediary remains unpaid, the intermediary must maintain the IRP revolving fund. All Agency IRP loan funds received by an intermediary must be deposited into an IRP revolving fund. The intermediary may transfer additional assets into the IRP revolving fund. All cash of the IRP revolving fund shall be deposited in a separate bank account or accounts. No other funds of the intermediary will be commingled with such money. All moneys deposited in such bank account or accounts shall be money of the IRP revolving fund. Loans to ultimate recipients are advanced from the IRP revolving fund. The receivables created by making loans to ultimate recipients, the intermediary's security interest in collateral pledged by ultimate recipients, collections on the receivables, interest, fees, and any other income or assets derived from the operation of the IRP revolving fund are a part of the IRP revolving fund.

(1) The portion of the IRP revolving fund that consists of Agency IRP loan funds, on a last-in-first-out basis, may only be used for making loans in accordance with § 4274.314 of this subpart. The portion of the IRP revolving fund which consists of revolved funds may be used for debt service, reasonable administrative costs, or reserves in accordance with this section, or for making additional loans.

(2) The intermediary must submit an annual budget of proposed administrative costs for Agency approval. The annual budget should itemize cash income and cash out-flow. Projected cash income should consist of, but is not limited to, collection of principal repayment, interest repayment, interest earnings on deposits, fees, and other income. Projected cash out-flow should consist of, but is not limited to, principal and interest payments, reserve for bad debt, and an itemization of administrative costs to operate the IRP revolving fund. Proceeds received from the collection of principal repayment cannot be used for administrative expenses. The amount removed from the IRP revolving fund for administrative costs in any year must be reasonable, must not exceed the actual cost of operating the IRP revolving fund, including loan servicing and providing technical assistance, and must not exceed the amount approved by the Agency in the intermediary's annual budget.

(3) A reasonable amount of revolved funds must be used to create a reserve for bad debts. Reserves must be accumulated over a period of years. The total amount should not exceed maximum expected losses, considering the quality of the intermediary's portfolio of loans. Unless the intermediary provides loss and delinquency records that, in the opinion of the Agency, justifies different amounts, a reserve for bad debts of 6 percent of outstanding loans must be accumulated over 3 years and then maintained.

(4) Any cash in the IRP revolving fund from any source that is not needed for debt service, approved administrative costs, or reasonable reserves must be available for additional loans to ultimate recipients. Funds may not be used for any investments in securities or certificates of deposit of over 30-day duration without the concurrence of Rural Development. If funds in excess of $250,000 have been unused to make loans to ultimate recipients for 6 months or more, those funds will be returned to Rural Development unless Rural Development provides an exception to the intermediary. Any exception would be based on evidence satisfactory to Rural Development that every effort is being made by the intermediary to utilize the IRP funding in conformance with program objectives.

(5) All reserves and other cash in the IRP revolving loan fund not immediately needed for loans to ultimate recipients or other authorized uses will be deposited in accounts in banks or other financial institutions. Such accounts will be fully covered by Federal deposit insurance or fully collateralized with U.S. Government obligations, and must be interest bearing. Any interest earned thereon remains a part of the IRP revolving fund.

(6) If an intermediary receives more than one IRP loan, it need not establish and maintain a separate IRP revolving loan fund for each loan; it may combine them and maintain only one IRP revolving fund, unless the Agency requires separate IRP revolving funds because there are significant differences in the loan purposes, work plans, loan agreements, or requirements for the loans. The Agency may allow loans with different requirements to be combined into one IRP revolving fund if the intermediary agrees in writing to operate the combined revolving funds in accordance with the most stringent requirements as required by the Agency.

[63 FR 6053, Feb. 6, 1998, as amended at 79 FR 31847, June 3, 2014]