##### ยง 800.701 Obligation of parties to provide information. #####

(a) Parties to a transaction that is notified under subpart D shall provide information to the Staff Chairperson that will enable the Committee to conduct a full review and/or investigation of the proposed transaction, and shall promptly advise the Staff Chairperson of any material changes in plans or information pursuant to ยง 800.402(h). If deemed necessary by the Committee, information may be obtained from parties to a transaction or other persons through subpoena or otherwise, pursuant to 50 U.S.C. App. 2155(a).

(b) Documentary materials or information required or requested to be filed with the Committee under this part shall be submitted in English. Supplementary materials, such as annual reports, written in a foreign language, shall be submitted in certified English translation.

(c) Any information filed with the Committee by a party to a covered transaction in connection with any action for which a report is required pursuant to section 721(l)(3)(B) with respect to the implementation of a mitigation agreement or condition described in section 721(l)(1)(A) shall be accompanied by a certification that complies with the requirements of section 721(n) and ยง 800.202. A sample certification may be found at the Committee's section of the Department of the Treasury Web site at *http://www.treas.gov/offices/international-affairs/cfius/index.shtml.*

(d) At the conclusion of a review or investigation, each party that has filed additional information subsequent to the original notice shall file a final certification. (See ยง 800.202.) A sample certification may be found at the Committee's section of the Department of the Treasury Web site at *http://www.treas.gov/offices/international-affairs/cfius/index.shtml.*