##### § 706.33 Administrative appeals. #####

(a) *Requirements for making an appeal.* A requester may appeal any adverse determinations denying his or her request to OPIC's Vice President and General Counsel at *FOIA@opic.gov* or 1100 New York Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20527. Examples of adverse determinations are provided in § 706.31(c). The requester must make the appeal in writing and it must be postmarked, or in the case of electronic submissions, transmitted, within twenty working days following the date on which the requester receives OPIC's denial. Appeals that have not been postmarked or transmitted within the twenty days will be considered untimely and will be administratively closed with notice to the requester. The appeal letter should include the assigned request number. The requester should mark both the appeal letter and envelope, or subject line of the electronic transmission, “Freedom of Information Act Appeal.”

(b) *Adjudication of appeals.* OPIC's Vice President and General Counsel or his/her designee will render a written decision within twenty working days after the date of OPIC's receipt of the appeal, unless an extension of up to ten working days is deemed necessary due to unusual circumstances. The requester will be notified in writing of any extension.

(c) *Decisions on appeals.* A decision that upholds the initial determination will contain a written statement that identifies the reasons for the affirmance, including any FOIA exemptions applied, and will provide the requester with notification of the statutory right to file a lawsuit or the ability to request mediation from the Office of Government Information Services. If an initial determination is remanded or modified on appeal the requester will be notified in writing. OPIC's FOIA Office will then process the request in accordance with that appeal determination and respond directly to the requester. If an appeal is granted in whole or in part, the information will be made available promptly, provided the requirements of § 706.22 regarding payment of fees are satisfied.

(d) *When appeal is required.* Before seeking court review, a requester generally must first submit a timely administrative appeal.