##### ยง 388.5 Requests for assistance. #####

(a) *State request for Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration assistance.* Upon written request of the appropriate State authority, the officials of the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration for that State shall, as time, personnel, and funds permit, obtain evidence for use by said State in the enforcement of its laws and regulations concerning unsafe motor carrier operations. Evidence obtained in this manner shall be transmitted to the appropriate State authority together with the name and address of an agent or employee, if any, having knowledge of the facts, who shall be made available when necessary to testify as a witness in an enforcement proceeding or other action.

(b) *Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration request for State assistance.* Upon written request from a Regional Director of Motor Carriers, the appropriate State authority, shall, as time, personnel, and funds permit, obtain evidence in the State for use by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration in its enforcement of the safety and hazardous materials laws and regulations of the United States concerning highway transportation. Evidence obtained in this manner shall be transmitted to the Field Administrator, together with the name and address of an agent or employee, if any, having knowledge of the facts, who shall be made available when necessary to testify as a witness in an enforcement proceeding or other action.

[33 FR 19725, Dec. 25, 1968, as amended at 51 FR 12621, Apr. 14, 1986; 60 FR 38743, July 28, 1995; 67 FR 61824, Oct. 2, 2002]