##### ยง 200.16 Executive Assistant to the Chairman. #####

The Executive Assistant to the Chairman assists the Chairman in consideration of legal, financial, and economic problems encountered in the administration of the Commission's statutes. He or she arranges for and conducts conferences with officials of the Commission, members of the staff, and/or representatives of the public on matters arising with regard to general programs or specific matters. Acting for the Chairman, he or she furnishes the initiative, executive direction, and authority for staff studies and reports bearing on the Commission's administration of the laws and its relations with the public, industry, and the Congress. The Executive Assistant is also responsible for assisting members of the Commission in the preparation of the opinions of the Commission, and to the Commission for the preparation of opinions and decisions on motions and certifications of questions and rulings by administrative law judges in the course of administrative proceedings under Rule 102(e) of the Commission's Rules of Practice (ยง 201.102(e) of this chapter), and in other cases in which the Chairman or the General Counsel has determined that separation of functions requirements or other circumstances would make inappropriate the exercise of such functions by the General Counsel. In cases where, pursuant to a waiver by the parties of separation of function requirements, another Division or Office of the Commission's staff undertakes to prepare an opinion or decision, such Division or Office rather than the Executive Assistant will prepare such opinion or decision, although the Executive Assistant may assist in such preparation. The Executive Assistant is further responsible for the exercise of such review functions with respect to adjudicatory matters as are delegated to him or her by the Commission pursuant to 101 Stat. 1254 (15 U.S.C. 78d-1, 78d-2) or as may be otherwise delegated or assigned to him or her.

[54 FR 18100, Apr. 27, 1989, as amended at 60 FR 32794, June 23, 1995]