##### § 10.540 Packing materials and containers for shipment. #####

(a) Packing materials and containers for shipment, as defined in § 10.530(j) of this subpart, are to be disregarded in determining whether the non-originating materials used in the production of the good undergo an applicable change in tariff classification set out in General Note 25(o), HTSUS. Accordingly, such materials and containers are not required to undergo the applicable change in tariff classification even if they are non-originating.

(b) Packing materials and containers for shipment, as defined in § 10.530(j) of this subpart, are to be disregarded in determining the regional value content of a good imported into the United States. Accordingly, in applying either the build-down or build-up method for determining the regional value content of the good imported into the United States, the value of such packing materials and containers for shipment (whether originating or non-originating) is disregarded and not included in AV, adjusted value, VNM, value of non-originating materials, or VOM, value of originating materials.

Example.Singaporean Producer A produces good C. Producer A ships good C to the U.S. in a shipping container which it purchased from Company B in Singapore. The shipping container is originating. The value of the shipping container determined under section § 10.536(a)(2) of this subpart is $3. Good C is subject to a regional value content requirement. The transaction value of good C is $100, which includes the $3 shipping container. The United States importer decides to use the build-up method, RVC = (VOM/AV) × 100 (*see* § 10.535(c) of this subpart), in determining whether good C satisfies the regional value content requirement. In determining the AV, adjusted value, of good C imported into the U.S., paragraph (b) of this section requires a $3 deduction for the value of the shipping container. Therefore, the AV is $97 ($100−$3). In addition, the value of the shipping container is disregarded and not included in the VOM, value of originating materials.