##### § 1310.05 Reports. #####

Link to an amendment published at 81 FR 97022, December 30, 2016.Link to a delay published at 82 FR 8688, Jan. 30, 2017.

(a) Each regulated person shall report to the Special Agent in Charge of the DEA Divisional Office for the area in which the regulated person making the report is located, as follows:

(1) Any regulated transaction involving an extraordinary quantity of a listed chemical, an uncommon method of payment or delivery, or any other circumstance that the regulated person believes may indicate that the listed chemical will be used in violation of this part.

(2) Any proposed regulated transaction with a person whose description or other identifying characteristic the Administration has previously furnished to the regulated person.

(3) Any unusual or excessive loss or disappearance of a listed chemical under the control of the regulated person. The regulated person responsible for reporting a loss in-transit is the supplier.

(4) Any domestic regulated transaction in a tableting machine or an encapsulating machine.

(b) Each report submitted pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section shall, whenever possible, be made orally to the DEA Divisional Office for the area in which the regulated person making the report is located at the earliest practicable opportunity after the regulated person becomes aware of the circumstances involved and as much in advance of the conclusion of the transaction as possible. Written reports of transactions listed in paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(3) and (a)(4) of this section will subsequently be filed as set forth in § 1310.06 within 15 days after the regulated person becomes aware of the circumstances of the event. A transaction may not be completed with a person whose description or identifying characteristic has previously been furnished to the regulated person by the Administration unless the transaction is approved by the Administration.

(c) Each regulated person who imports or exports a tableting machine, or encapsulation machine, shall file a report (not a 486) of such importation or exportation with the Import/Export Unit, Drug Enforcement Administration, on or before the date of importation or exportation. See the Table of DEA Mailing Addresses in § 1321.01 of this chapter for the current mailing address. In order to facilitate the importation or exportation of any tableting machine or encapsulating machine and implement the purpose of the Act, regulated persons may wish to report to the Administration as far in advance as possible. A copy of the report may be transmitted directly to the Drug Enforcement Administration through electronic facsimile media. Any tableting machine or encapsulating machine may be imported or exported if that machine is needed for medical, commercial, scientific, or other legitimate uses. However, an importation or exportation of a tableting machine or encapsulating machine may not be completed with a person whose description or identifying characteristic has previously been furnished to the regulated person by the Administration unless the transaction is approved by the Administration.

(d) Each regulated bulk manufacturer of a listed chemical shall submit manufacturing, inventory and use data on an annual basis as set forth in § 1310.06(h). This data shall be submitted annually to the Drug and Chemical Evaluation Section, Drug Enforcement Administration, on or before the 15th day of March of the year immediately following the calendar year for which submitted. See the Table of DEA Mailing Addresses in § 1321.01 of this chapter for the current mailing address. A business entity which manufactures a listed chemical may elect to report separately by individual location or report as an aggregate amount for the entire business entity provided that they inform the DEA of which method they will use. This reporting requirement does not apply to drug or other products which are exempted under paragraphs (1)(iv) or (1)(v) of the definition of regulated transaction in § 1300.02 of this chapter except as set forth in § 1310.06(h)(5). Bulk manufacturers that produce a listed chemical solely for internal consumption shall not be required to report for that listed chemical. For purposes of these reporting requirements, internal consumption shall consist of any quantity of a listed chemical otherwise not available for further resale or distribution. Internal consumption shall include (but not be limited to) quantities used for quality control testing, quantities consumed in-house or production losses. Internal consumption does not include the quantities of a listed chemical consumed in the production of exempted products. If an existing standard industry report contains the information required in § 1310.06(h) and such information is separate or readily retrievable from the report, that report may be submitted in satisfaction of this requirement. Each report shall be submitted to the DEA under company letterhead and signed by an appropriate, responsible official. For purposes of this paragraph only, the term regulated bulk manufacturer of a listed chemical means a person who manufactures a listed chemical by means of chemical synthesis or by extraction from other substances. The term bulk manufacturer does not include persons whose sole activity consists of the repackaging or relabeling of listed chemical products or the manufacture of drug dosage form products which contain a listed chemical.

(e) Each regulated person required to report pursuant to § 1310.03(c) of this part shall either:

(1) Submit a written report, containing the information set forth in § 1310.06(i) of this part, on or before the 15th day of each month following the month in which the distributions took place. The report shall be submitted under company letterhead, signed by the person authorized to sign the registration application forms on behalf of the registrant, to the Import/Export Unit, Drug Enforcement Administration (see the Table of DEA Mailing Addresses in § 1321.01 of this chapter for the current mailing address); or

(2) Upon request to and approval by the Administration, submit the report in electronic form, either via computer disk or direct electronic data transmission, in such form as the Administration shall direct. Requests to submit reports in electronic form should be submitted to the Import/Export Unit, Drug Enforcement Administration. See the Table of DEA Mailing Addresses in § 1321.01 of this chapter for the current mailing address.

(f) Except as provided in paragraph (g) of this section, the following distributions to nonregulated persons, and the following export transactions, are not subject to the reporting requirements in § 1310.03(c):

(1) Distributions of sample packages of drug products when those packages contain not more than two solid dosage units or the equivalent of two dosage units in liquid form, not to exceed 10 milliliters of liquid per package, and not more than one package is distributed to an individual or residential address in any 30-day period.

(2) Distributions of drug products by retail distributors that may not include face-to-face transactions to the extent that such distributions are consistent with the activities authorized for a retail distributor as defined in § 1300.02 of this chapter, except that this paragraph does not apply to sales of scheduled listed chemical products at retail.

(3) Distributions of drug products to a resident of a long term care facility or distributions of drug products to a long term care facility for dispensing to or for use by a resident of that facility.

(4) Distributions of drug products in accordance with a valid prescription.

(5) Exports which have been reported to the Administrator under §§ 1313.31 and 1313.32 of this chapter or which are subject to a waiver granted under § 1313.21 of this chapter.

(g) The Administrator may revoke any or all of the exemptions listed in paragraph (f) of this section for an individual regulated person if the Administrator finds that drug products distributed by the regulated person are being used in violation of the regulations in this chapter or the Controlled Substances Act. The Administrator will notify the regulated person of the revocation, as provided in § 1313.41(a) of this chapter. The revocation will be effective upon receipt of the notice by the person. The regulated person has the right to an expedited hearing regarding the revocation, as provided in § 1313.56(a) of this chapter.

[54 FR 31665, Aug. 1, 1989, as amended at 57 FR 2461, Jan. 22, 1992; 61 FR 14024, Mar. 29, 1996; 61 FR 17958, Apr. 23, 1996; 62 FR 13968, Mar. 24, 1997; 67 FR 14862, Mar. 28, 2002; 67 FR 49569, July 31, 2002; 68 FR 57804, Oct. 7, 2003; 71 FR 56024, Sept. 26, 2006; 75 FR 10680, Mar. 9, 2010; 77 FR 4236, Jan. 27, 2012]