##### ยง 263.19 Detailed project reports. #####

(a) The Detailed Project Report serves a dual purpose: the report serves both as basis for approval of a project for construction by the Chief of Engineers and it serves as a basis for preparation of plans and specifications. (See exception for emergencies, ยง 263.17(b)(3)). The main report should reflect the plan formulation, generally in accordance with ER 1105-2-402 and ER 1105-2-403. A Design Appendix will be provided as appropriate, for more detailed information on the development of the plan, or elements of the selected plan, recommended for implementation as a Federal project by the Corps of Engineers. The Design Appendix of the report will generally meet the requirements of ER 1110-2-1150, as it pertains to Phase II AE&D studies for projects specifically authorized by Congress, except that it need not duplicate material on plan formulation covered in the main report. Other appendixes should be included as required.

(b) It is anticipated that DPR's submitted for projects under Section 208 Authority will be less extensive than reports submitted under Sections 205, 107, 103 and 111 Authorities, and that DPR's submitted for projects under Section 14 Authority will be further abbreviated due to simplicity of the project. The important point is that the planning process should be generally considered the same for studies conducted under all Program authorities; the plan formulation portion of the DPR should reflect this process and the rationale for arriving at the selected plan and recommendations for Federal participation.

(c) The level of detail and extent of engineering work reflected in the Design Appendix must be sufficient to proceed directly to plans and specifications. In the event that the need arrises for feature design memoranda on selected aspects of the project, such requirements should be identified in the letter of transmittal accompanying the DPR when submitted to OCE.