##### ยง 80.1005 Inspection of station. #####

Link to an amendment published at 81 FR 90747, Dec. 15, 2016.

The bridge-to-bridge radiotelephone station will be inspected on vessels subject to regular inspections pursuant to the requirements of Parts II and III of Title II of the Communications Act, the Safety Convention or the Great Lakes Agreement at the time of the regular inspection. If after such inspection, the Commission determines that the Bridge-to-Bridge Act, the rules of the Commission and the station license are met, an endorsement will be made on the appropriate document. The validity of the endorsement will run concurrently with the period of the regular inspection. Each vessel must carry a certificate with a valid endorsement while subject to the Bridge-to-Bridge Act. All other bridge-to-bridge stations will be inspected from time to time. An inspection of the bridge-to-bridge station on a Great Lakes Agreement vessel must normally be made at the same time as the Great Lakes Agreement inspection is conducted by a technician holding one of the following: a General Radiotelephone Operator License, a GMDSS Radio Maintainer's License, a Radiotelegraph Operator License, a Second Class Radiotelegraph Operator's Certificate, or a First Class Radiotelegraph Operator's Certificate. Additionally, the technician must not be the owner, operator, master, or an employee of any of them. Ships subject to the Bridge-to-Bridge Act may, in lieu of an endorsed certificate, certify compliance in the station log required by ยง 80.409(f).

[78 FR 23157, Apr. 18, 2013]