##### ยง 1.9000-3 Requirement of statement showing increase in tax liability. #####

(a) *Returns filed before June 15, 1955.* Where a return reflecting an election under section 452 or 462 was filed before June 15, 1955, the taxpayer must file on or before December 15, 1955, a statement on Form 2175 showing the increase in tax liability resulting from the repeal of sections 452 and 462. The provisions of this paragraph may be illustrated by the following example:

Example.Corporation X filed its income tax return for the calendar year 1954 on March 15, 1955, and elected under section 6152 to pay the unpaid amount of the tax shown thereon in two equal installments. Such installment payments are due on March 15, 1955, and June 15, 1955, respectively. The corporation elected to compute its tax for such taxable year under the methods of accounting provided by sections 452 and 462. Corporation X's tax liability is increased by reason of the enactment of Public Law 74, and since the last date prescribed for paying its tax expires before December 15, 1955, it is required to submit the prescribed statement on or before December 15, 1955, showing its increase in tax liability.

(b) *Returns filed on or after June 15, 1955.* A taxpayer filing a return on or after June 15, 1955, for a taxable year ending on or before such date, may elect to apply the accounting methods provided in sections 452 and 462. The election may be exercised by either of the following methods:

(1) By computing the tax liability shown on such return as though the provisions of sections 452 and 462 had not been repealed. In such a case, the taxpayer must file on or before December 15, 1955, a statement on Form 2175 showing the increase in tax liability resulting from the repeal of sections 452 and 462.

(2) By computing his tax liability without regard to sections 452 and 462. In this case, Form 2175 must be filed with the return. However, taxable income and the tax liability computed with the application of sections 452 and 462 shall be shown on lines 8 and 14, respectively, of the form in lieu of the amounts otherwise called for on those lines.

If a taxpayer does not make an election to have the provisions of sections 452 and 462 apply, the savings provisions of section 4 of the Act of June 15, 1955, are not applicable.

(c) *Taxable years ending after June 15, 1955.* A taxpayer having a taxable year ending after June 15, 1955, may not elect to apply the methods of accounting prescribed in sections 452 and 462 in computing taxable income for such taxable year. Such a taxpayer must file his return and pay the tax as if such sections had not been enacted.

(d) *Other situations requiring statements.* (1) A person who made an election under section 452 or 462 but whose tax liability was not increased by reason of the enactment of the Act of June 15, 1955, is nevertheless required to file a statement on Form 2175 if his gross income is increased or his deductions are decreased as the result of the repeal of sections 452 and 462. A partnership which makes an election under such sections must file such a statement. In addition, a partner, stockholder, distributee, etc. (whether or not such person made an election under section 452 or 462), shall file a statement showing any increase in his tax liability resulting from the effects of the repeal on the gross income or deductions of any person mentioned in the previous sentences of this subparagraph.

(2) A statement shall also be filed for a taxable year, other than a year to which an election under section 452 or 462 is applicable, if the repeal of such sections increases the tax liability of such year. Thus, a statement must be filed for any taxable year to which a net operating loss is carried from a year to which an election under section 452 or 462 is applicable, provided that the repeal of such sections affects the amount of the tax liability for the year to which such loss is carried. A separate statement must also be filed for a year in which there is a net operating loss which is changed by reason of the repeal of sections 452 and 462. Where there is a short taxable year involved, a taxpayer may have two taxable years to which elections under sections 452 and 462 are applicable and, in such a case, a statement, on Form 2175, must be filed for each such year.