##### § 1.7874-1 Disregard of affiliate-owned stock. #####

(a) *Scope.* Section 7874(c)(2)(A) provides that stock of the foreign acquiring corporation held by members of the expanded affiliated group shall not be taken into account in determining ownership for purposes of section 7874(a)(2)(B)(ii). This section provides rules under section 7874(c)(2)(A). The rules provided in this section are also subject to section 7874(c)(4). For definitions that apply for purposes of this section, see 1.7874-12.

(b) *General rule.* Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, for purposes of determining the ownership percentage described in section 7874(a)(2)(B)(ii), stock held by one or more members of the EAG is not included in either the numerator or the denominator of the ownership fraction.

(c) *Exceptions to general rule*—(1) *Overview.* Stock held by one or more members of the EAG shall be included in the denominator, but not in the numerator, of the ownership fraction, if the domestic entity acquisition qualifies as an *internal group restructuring* or results in a *loss of control*, as described in paragraph (c)(2) and (c)(3) of this section. For rules addressing the interaction of this section and other rules, see paragraph (d) of this section.

(2) *Internal group restructuring.* For purposes of paragraph (c)(1) of this section, a domestic entity acquisition qualifies as an internal group restructuring if:

(i) Before the domestic entity acquisition, 80 percent or more of the stock (by vote and value) or the capital and profits interest, as applicable, of the domestic entity was held directly or indirectly by the corporation that is the common parent of the EAG after the acquisition; and

(ii) After the domestic entity acquisition, 80 percent or more of the stock (by vote and value) of the foreign acquiring corporation is held directly or indirectly by such common parent.

(iii) *Special rule.* If § 1.7874-6(c)(2) applies for purposes of applying section 7874(c)(2)(A) and this section, then, for purposes of paragraph (c)(2) of this section (and so much of paragraph (c)(1) of this section as relates to paragraph (c)(2) of this section), the determination of the EAG after the domestic entity acquisition, as well as the determination of stock held by one or more members of the EAG after the domestic entity acquisition, is made without regard to one or more transfers (other than by issuance), in a transaction (or series of transactions) after and related to the acquisition, of stock of the acquiring foreign corporation by one or more members of the foreign-parented group described in § 1.7874-6(c)(2)(i).

(3) *Loss of control.* For purposes of paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the domestic entity acquisition results in a loss of control if after the acquisition, the former domestic entity shareholders or former domestic entity partners do not hold, in the aggregate, directly or indirectly, more than 50 percent of the stock (by vote or value) of any member of the EAG.

(d) *Interaction of expanded affiliated group rules with other rules*—(1) *Exclusion rules.* Stock that is excluded from the denominator of the ownership fraction pursuant to § 1.7874-4(b), 1.7874-7(b), 1.7874-8(b), 1.7874-9(b), or section 7874(c)(4) is taken into account for purposes of determining whether an entity is a member of the expanded affiliated group for purposes of applying section 7874(c)(2)(A) and paragraph (b) of this section and determining whether a domestic entity acquisition qualifies as an internal group restructuring or results in a loss of control, as described in paragraphs (c)(2) and (3) of this section, respectively. However, such stock is excluded from the denominator of the ownership fraction regardless of whether it otherwise would be included in the denominator of the ownership fraction as a result of the application of paragraph (c) of this section. See *Example 8* and *Example 9* of § 1.7874-4(i) for illustrations of the application of this paragraph (d)(1).

(2) *NOCD rule.* Stock of the foreign acquiring corporation treated as received by former domestic entity shareholders or former domestic entity partners, as applicable, under § 1.7874-10(b) is not taken into account for purposes of determining whether an entity is a member of the expanded affiliated group for purposes of applying section 7874(c)(2)(A) and paragraph (b) of this section and determining whether a domestic entity acquisition qualifies as an internal group restructuring or results in a loss of control, as described in paragraphs (c)(2) and (3) of this section, respectively. However, such stock is included in the numerator and denominator of the ownership fraction, except to the extent that it is treated as held by a member of the EAG and is excluded from the numerator or both the numerator and the denominator, as applicable, under section 7874(c)(2)(A) or paragraphs (b) or (c) of this section.

(e) *Treatment of certain hook stock.* This paragraph applies to stock of a corporation that is held by an entity in which at least 50 percent of the stock (by vote or value) or at least 50 percent of the capital or profits interest, as applicable, in such entity, is held directly or indirectly by the corporation. The stock to which this paragraph applies shall not be included in either the numerator or denominator of any fraction for the following purposes:

(1) For applying paragraph (c)(1) of this section; and

(2) For determining whether the domestic entity acquisition qualifies as an internal group restructuring (described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section) or results in a loss of control (described in paragraph (c)(3) of this section).

(f) *Stock held by a partnership.* For purposes of this section, each partner in a partnership shall be treated as holding its proportionate share of stock held by the partnership, as determined under the rules and principles of sections 701 through 777.

(g) *Treatment of transactions related to the acquisition.* Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2)(iii) of this section, all transactions that are related to an acquisition are taken into account in applying this section.

(h) *Examples.* The application of this section is illustrated by the following examples. It is assumed that all transactions in the examples occur after March 4, 2003. In all the examples, if an entity or other person is not described as either domestic or foreign, it may be either domestic or foreign. In addition, each entity has only a single class of equity outstanding. Finally, the analysis of the following examples is limited to a discussion of issues under section 7874, even though the examples may raise other issues (for example, under section 367).

Example 1. Disregard of hook stock.(i) *Facts.* USS, a domestic corporation, has 100 shares of stock outstanding. USS's stock is held by a group of individuals. Pursuant to a plan, USS forms FS, a foreign corporation, and transfers to FS the stock of several wholly owned foreign corporations, in exchange for 90 shares of FS stock. FS then forms Merger Sub, a domestic corporation. Under a merger agreement and state law, Merger Sub merges into USS, with USS surviving the merger. In exchange for their USS stock, the former shareholders of USS receive, in the aggregate, 100 shares of newly issued FS stock. As a result of the merger FS holds 100 percent of the USS stock. USS continues to hold 90 shares of FS stock.

(ii) *Analysis.* FS has indirectly acquired substantially all the properties held directly or indirectly by USS pursuant to a plan. After the acquisition, the former shareholders of USS hold 100 shares of FS stock by reason of holding stock in USS, and USS holds 90 shares of FS stock. Under paragraph (b) of this section, the 90 shares of FS stock held by USS, a member of the EAG, are not included in either the numerator or the denominator of the ownership fraction. Accordingly, the ownership fraction is 100/100. If the condition in section 7874(a)(2)(B)(iii) is satisfied, FS is a surrogate foreign corporation which is treated as a domestic corporation under section 7874(b).

Example 2. Internal group restructuring; wholly owned corporation.(i) *Facts.* P, a corporation, owns all 100 outstanding shares of USS, a domestic corporation. USS forms FS, a foreign corporation, and transfers all its assets to FS in exchange for all 100 shares of the stock of FS, in a reorganization described in section 368(a)(1). P exchanges its USS stock for FS stock under section 354.

(ii) *Analysis.* FS has directly acquired substantially all the properties held directly or indirectly by USS pursuant to a plan. The acquisition is an internal group restructuring described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section because P, the common parent of the EAG after the acquisition, held directly or indirectly 80 percent or more of the stock (by vote and value) of USS before the acquisition, and after the acquisition, P holds directly or indirectly 80 percent or more of the stock (by vote and value) of FS. Accordingly, under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the FS stock held by P is included in the denominator, but not in the numerator of the ownership fraction. Therefore, the ownership fraction is 0/100. FS is not a surrogate foreign corporation.

Example 3. Internal group restructuring; wholly owned corporation.(i) *Facts.* The facts are the same as in *Example 2*, except that USS does not transfer any of its assets to FS. Instead, P transfers all 100 shares of USS stock to FS in exchange for all 100 shares of FS stock.

(ii) *Analysis.* FS has indirectly acquired substantially all the properties held directly or indirectly by USS pursuant to a plan. The acquisition is an internal group restructuring described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section because P, the common parent of the EAG after the acquisition, held directly or indirectly 80 percent or more of the stock (by vote and value) of USS before the acquisition, and after the acquisition, P holds directly or indirectly 80 percent or more of the stock (by vote and value) of FS. Accordingly, under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the FS stock held by P is included in the denominator, but not in the numerator of the ownership fraction. Accordingly, the ownership fraction is 0/100. FS is not a surrogate foreign corporation.

Example 4. Internal group restructuring; less than wholly owned corporation.(i) *Facts.* The facts are the same as in *Example 3*, except that P holds 85 shares of USS stock. The remaining 15 shares of USS stock are held by A, a person unrelated to P. P and A transfer their shares of USS stock to FS in exchange for 85 and 15 shares of FS stock, respectively.

(ii) *Analysis.* FS has indirectly acquired substantially all the properties held directly or indirectly by USS pursuant to a plan. The acquisition is an internal group restructuring described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section because P, the common parent of the EAG after the acquisition, held directly or indirectly 80 percent or more of the stock (by vote and value) of USS before the acquisition, and after the acquisition P holds directly or indirectly 80 percent or more of the stock (by vote and value) of FS. Therefore, under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the FS stock held by P is included in the denominator, but not in the numerator of the ownership fraction. Accordingly, the ownership fraction is 15/100. FS is not a surrogate foreign corporation.

Example 5. Internal group restructuring exception not applicable; less than 80 percent owned corporation.(i) *Facts.* The facts are the same as in Example 2, except that P owns 55 shares of USS stock, and A, a person unrelated to P, holds 45 shares of USS stock. P and A exchange their shares of USS stock for 55 shares and 45 shares of FS stock, respectively.

(ii) *Analysis.* FS has acquired substantially all the properties held directly or indirectly by USS pursuant to a plan. P, the common parent of the EAG after the acquisition, did not hold directly or indirectly 80 percent or more of the stock (by vote and value) of USS before the acquisition, and after the acquisition P does not hold directly or indirectly 80 percent or more of the stock (by vote and value) of FS. Thus, the acquisition is not an internal group restructuring described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, and the general rule of paragraph (b) of this section applies. Under paragraph (b) of this section, the FS stock held by P, a member of the EAG, is not included in either the numerator or the denominator of the ownership fraction. Accordingly, the ownership fraction is 45/45. If the condition in section 7874(a)(2)(B)(iii) is satisfied, FS is a surrogate foreign corporation which is treated as a domestic corporation under section 7874(b).

Example 6. Internal group restructuring; hook stock.(i) *Facts.* USS, a domestic corporation, has 100 shares of stock outstanding. P, a corporation, holds 80 shares of USS stock. The remaining 20 shares of USS stock are held by A, a person unrelated to P. USS owns all 30 outstanding shares of FS, a foreign corporation. Pursuant to a plan, FS forms Merger Sub, a domestic corporation. Under a merger agreement and state law, Merger Sub merges into USS, with USS surviving the merger as a subsidiary of FS. In exchange for their USS stock, P and A, the former shareholders of USS, respectively receive 56 and 14 shares of FS stock. USS continues to hold 30 shares of FS stock.

(ii) *Analysis.* FS has indirectly acquired substantially all the properties held directly or indirectly by USS pursuant to a plan. Under paragraph (b) of this section, the shares of FS stock held by P and USS, both of which are members of the EAG, are not included in either the numerator or denominator of the ownership fraction, unless the acquisition results in an internal group restructuring or loss of control of USS such that the exception of paragraph (c)(1) of this section applies. In determining whether the acquisition of USS is an internal group restructuring, under paragraph (e)(2) of this section, the FS stock held by USS is disregarded. Because P held directly or indirectly 80 percent or more of the stock (by vote and value) of USS before the acquisition, and after the acquisition P holds directly or indirectly 80 percent or more of the stock (by vote and value) of FS (when disregarding the FS stock held by USS), the acquisition is an internal group restructuring and the exception of paragraph (c)(1) of this section applies. Accordingly, when determining whether FS is a surrogate foreign corporation, the FS stock held by P is included in the denominator, but not the numerator of the ownership fraction. However, under paragraph (b) of this section, the FS stock held by USS is not included in either the numerator or denominator of the ownership fraction. Accordingly, the ownership fraction is 14/70, or 20 percent, since only the stock held by A is included in the numerator, and the stock held by both P and A is included in the denominator. Accordingly, FS is not a surrogate foreign corporation.

Example 7. Loss of control.(i) *Facts.* P, a corporation, holds all the outstanding stock of USS, a domestic corporation. B, a corporation unrelated to P, holds all 60 outstanding shares of FS, a foreign corporation. P transfers to FS all the outstanding stock of USS in exchange for 40 newly issued shares of FS.

(ii) *Analysis.* FS has indirectly acquired substantially all the properties held directly or indirectly by USS pursuant to a plan. After the acquisition, B holds 60 percent of the outstanding shares of the FS stock. Accordingly, B, FS and USS are members of an EAG. After the acquisition, P does not hold directly or indirectly more than 50 percent of the stock (by vote or value) of any member of the EAG and, thus, the acquisition results in a loss of control described in paragraph (c)(3) of this section. Accordingly, under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the FS stock owned by B is included in the denominator, but not in the numerator, of the ownership fraction. Therefore, the ownership fraction is 40/100. FS is not a surrogate foreign corporation.

Example 8. Internal group restructuring; partnership.(i) *Facts.* LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, is engaged in the conduct of a trade or business. P, a corporation, holds 90 percent of the interests of LLC. A, a person unrelated to P, holds 10 percent of the interests of LLC. LLC has not elected to be treated as an association taxable as a corporation. P and A transfer their interests in LLC to FS, a newly formed foreign corporation, in exchange for 90 shares and 10 shares, respectively, of FS's stock, which are all of the outstanding shares of FS. Accordingly, LLC becomes a disregarded entity.

(ii) *Analysis.* Prior to the FS's acquisition of the interests of LLC, LLC was a domestic partnership for Federal income tax purposes. FS has acquired substantially all the properties constituting a trade or business of LLC pursuant to a plan. After the acquisition, P holds 90 percent of FS's stock (by vote and value) by reason of holding a capital and profits interest in LLC, and A holds 10 percent of FS's stock (by vote and value) by reason of holding a capital and profits interest in LLC. The internal group restructuring exception under paragraph (c)(2) of this section applies, because before the acquisition, P held 80 percent or more of the capital and profits interest in LLC, and after the acquisition, P holds 80 percent or more of the stock (by vote and value) of FS. Under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the FS stock held by P is included in the denominator, but not the numerator, of the ownership fraction. Accordingly, the ownership fraction is 10/100. FS is not a surrogate foreign corporation.

(i) *Applicability dates*—(1) *In general.* Except as otherwise provided, this section shall apply to domestic entity acquisitions completed on or after May 20, 2008. This section shall not, however, apply to a domestic entity acquisition that was completed on or after May 20, 2008, provided such acquisition was entered into pursuant to a written agreement which was (subject to customary conditions) binding prior to May 20, 2008, and at all times thereafter (binding commitment). For purposes of the preceding sentence, a binding commitment shall include entering into options and similar interests in connection with one or more written agreements described in the preceding sentence. Notwithstanding the general application of this paragraph, taxpayers may elect to apply this section to domestic entity acquisitions completed before May 20, 2008, but must apply it consistently to all acquisitions within its scope. Paragraph (f) of this section shall apply to domestic entity acquisitions completed on or after June 7, 2012. See § 1.7874-1T(e), as contained in 26 CFR part 1 revised as of April 1, 2012, for completed before June 7, 2012.

(2) *Applicability date of certain provisions of this section.* Except as provided in this paragraph (i)(2), paragraph (c)(2)(iii) of this section applies to domestic entity acquisitions completed on or after April 4, 2016. Except as provided in this paragraph (i)(2), paragraph (d) of this section (interaction of EAG rules with other rules) applies to domestic entity acquisitions completed on or after July 12, 2018. See §§ 1.7874-4(h) and 1.7874-7T(e), as contained in 26 CFR part 1 revised as of April 1, 2017, for certain coordination rules for domestic entity acquisitions completed before July 12, 2018. Except as provided in this paragraph (i)(2), paragraph (g) of this section applies to domestic entity acquisitions completed on or after September 22, 2014. For domestic entity acquisitions completed before April 4, 2016, however, taxpayers may elect to consistently apply paragraphs (c)(2)(iii) and (g) of this section, and § 1.7874-6(c)(2), (d)(2), and (f)(2)(ii). In addition, for domestic entity acquisitions completed before July 12, 2018, taxpayers may elect to consistently apply paragraph (d) of this section.

[T.D. 9399, 73 FR 29057, May 20, 2008, as amended by T.D. 9453, 74 FR 27926, June 12, 2009; T.D. 9591, 77 FR 34791, June 12, 2012; T.D. 9654, 79 FR 3100, Jan. 17, 2014; T.D. 9761, 81 FR 20894, Apr. 8, 2016; T.D. 9812, 82 FR 5401, Jan. 18, 2017; T.D. 9834, 83 FR 32543, July 12, 2018]