##### 809.407-3 Procedures. #####

(a) Any individual may submit a recommendation to suspend a contractor to the DSPE. The recommendation to suspend must be supported with evidence of a cause for suspension listed in FAR 9.407-2. When the DSPE receives a recommendation for suspension, he or she will refer the matter to the D&S Committee. If the reporting individual is a VA employee and the recommendation to suspend is based on possible criminal or fraudulent activities, the VA employee must report the circumstances to the VA Office of Inspector General before making a recommendation to the DSPE.

(b) When the D&S Committee finds evidence of a cause for suspension, as listed in FAR 9.407-2, with or without a recommendation, it will conduct a fact-finding and present facts and recommendations to the suspending official.

(c) If the suspending official finds a basis for suspending a contractor, the D&S Committee will prepare a notice of suspension under FAR 9.407-3(c) for the signature of the suspending official. The signed notice of suspension will be sent to the last known address of the contractor, the contractor's counsel, or agent for service of process, by certified mail, return receipt requested. In the case of a business, the D&S Committee may send the notice of suspension to any partner, principal, officer, director, owner or co-owner, or joint venture. The D&S Committee concurrently must post notice of suspension to the General Services Administration Excluded Parties List System pending completion of investigation and any ensuing legal proceedings.

(d) If VA receives a reply from the contractor within 45 calendar days of sending the notice of suspension, the D&S Committee must consider the information in the reply before the Committee makes further recommendations to the suspending official. The D&S Committee, upon the request of a suspended contractor, must, as soon as practicable, allow the contractor an opportunity to appear before the D&S Committee to present information or argument in person or through a representative. The contractor may supplement the oral presentation with written information and argument. The proceeding will be conducted in an informal manner and without requirement for a transcript. The D&S Committee shall prepare a report of the proceeding for the suspending official.

(e) In actions not based on an indictment, if the D&S Committee finds that the contractor's submission in opposition to the suspension raises a genuine dispute over facts material to the suspension, the D&S Committee shall submit to the suspending official the information establishing the dispute of material facts. However, the D&S Committee must first coordinate any further proceeding regarding the facts in dispute with the Department of Justice or with a State prosecuting authority in a case involving a State jurisdiction. VA will take no further action to determine disputed material facts pursuant to this section or 809.470 if the Department of Justice or a State prosecuting authority advises VA that additional proceedings to make such a determination would prejudice Federal or State legal proceedings.

(f) If the suspending official agrees that there is a genuine dispute of material facts, the suspending official shall refer the dispute to the designee for resolution pursuant to 809.470.