##### 809.406-3 Procedures. #####

(a) Any individual may submit a recommendation to debar a contractor to the DSPE. The recommendation to debar must be supported with evidence of a cause for debarment listed in FAR 9.406-2. When the DSPE receives a recommendation for debarment, he or she will refer the matter to the D&S Committee. If the reporting individual is a VA employee and the recommendation to debar is based on possible criminal or fraudulent activities, the VA employee must report the circumstances to the VA Office of Inspector General before making a recommendation to the DSPE.

(b) When the D&S Committee finds evidence of a cause for debarment, as listed in FAR 9.406-2, with or without a recommendation, it will conduct a fact-finding and present facts to the debarring official.

(c) If the debarring official finds a basis for proposing a contractor for debarment, the D&S Committee will prepare a notice of proposed debarment under FAR 9.406-3(c) for the signature of the debarring official. The signed notice of proposed debarment will be sent to the last known address of the contractor, the contractor's counsel, or agent for service of process, by certified mail, return receipt requested. In the case of a business, the D&S Committee may send the notice of proposed debarment to any partner, principal, officer, director, owner or co-owner, or joint venture. The D&S Committee concurrently must post notice of proposed debarment to the General Services Administration Excluded Parties List System pending a debarment decision.

(d) If VA does not receive a reply from the contractor within 45 calendar days of sending the notice of proposed debarment, the D&S Committee will prepare a recommendation and refer the case to the debarring official for a decision on whether or not to debar based on the information available.

(e) If VA receives a reply from the contractor within 45 calendar days of sending the notice of proposed debarment, the D&S Committee must consider the information in the reply before the D&S Committee makes its recommendation to the debarring official.

(f) The D&S Committee, upon the request of the contractor proposed for debarment, must, as soon as practicable, allow the contractor an opportunity to appear before the D&S Committee to present information or argument in person or through a representative. The contractor may supplement the oral presentation with written information and argument. The proceeding will be conducted in an informal manner and without requirement for a transcript. The D&S Committee shall prepare a report of the proceeding for the debarring official.

(g) If the D&S Committee finds that the contractor's submission in opposition to the debarment raises a genuine dispute over facts material to the proposed debarment and the debarment action is not based on a conviction or civil judgment, then the D&S Committee shall submit to the debarring official the information establishing the dispute of material facts. If the debarring official agrees that there is a genuine dispute of material facts, the debarring official shall refer the dispute to a designee for resolution pursuant to 809.470.

(h) If there are no disputes over material facts, the debarment action is based on a conviction or civil judgment, or all disputes over material facts have been resolved pursuant to 809.470, the debarring official will make a decision on the basis of all information available, including findings of facts and oral or written arguments presented or submitted to the D&S Committee by the contractor. The D&S Committee must update the status of the action on the General Services Administration Excluded Parties List System.