##### ยง 252.55 Mid-cycle stress test. #####

(a) *Mid-cycle stress test requirement.* In addition to the stress test required under ยง 252.54, a covered company must conduct a mid-cycle stress test. For the stress test cycle beginning on October 1, 2014, the mid-cycle stress test must be conducted by July 5 based on data as of March 31 of that calendar year, unless the time or the as-of date is extended by the Board in writing. For each stress test cycle beginning thereafter, the stress test must be conducted by September 30 of each calendar year based on data as of June 30 of that calendar year, unless the time or the as-of date is extended by the Board in writing.

(b) *Scenarios related to mid-cycle stress tests* - (1) *In general.* A covered company must develop and employ a minimum of three scenarios, including a baseline scenario, adverse scenario, and severely adverse scenario, that are appropriate for its own risk profile and operations, in conducting the stress test required by this section.

(2) *Additional components.* The Board may require a covered company to include one or more additional components in its adverse and severely adverse scenarios in the stress test required by this section based on the company's financial condition, size, complexity, risk profile, scope of operations, or activities, or risks to the U.S. economy.

(3) *Additional scenarios.* The Board may require a covered company to use one or more additional scenarios in the stress test required by this section based on the company's financial condition, size, complexity, risk profile, scope of operations, or activities, or risks to the U.S. economy.

(4) *Notice and response* - (i) *Notification of additional component.* If the Board requires a covered company to include one or more additional components in its adverse and severely adverse scenarios under paragraph (b)(2) of this section or one or more additional scenarios under paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the Board will notify the company in writing. For the stress test cycle beginning on October 1, 2014, the Board will provide such notification no later than March 31, and for each stress test cycle beginning thereafter, the Board will provide such notification no later than June 30. The notification will include a general description of the additional component(s) or additional scenario(s) and the basis for requiring the company to include the additional component(s) or additional scenario(s).

(ii) *Request for reconsideration and Board response.* Within 14 calendar days of receipt of a notification under this paragraph, the covered company may request in writing that the Board reconsider the requirement that the company include the additional component(s) or additional scenario(s), including an explanation as to why the reconsideration should be granted. The Board will respond in writing within 14 calendar days of receipt of the company's request.

(iii) *Description of component.* The Board will provide the covered company with a description of any additional component(s) or additional scenario(s) by June 1 (for the stress test cycle beginning on October 1, 2014) and by September 1 (for each stress test cycle beginning thereafter).