##### ยง 252.54 Annual stress test. #####

(a) *In general.* A covered company must conduct an annual stress test. For the stress test cycle beginning on October 1, 2014, the stress test must be conducted by January 5, 2015, based on data as of September 30, 2014, unless the time or the as-of date is extended by the Board in writing. For each stress test cycle beginning thereafter, the stress test must be conducted by April 5 of each calendar year based on data as of December 31 of the preceding calendar year, unless the time or the as-of date is extended by the Board in writing.

(b) *Scenarios provided by the Board* - (1) *In general.* In conducting a stress test under this section, a covered company must, at a minimum, use the scenarios provided by the Board. Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(2) and (3) of this section, for the stress test cycle beginning on October 1, 2014, the Board will provide a description of the scenarios to each covered company no later than November 15, 2014. Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(2) and (3) of this section, for each stress test cycle beginning thereafter, the Board will provide a description of the scenarios to each covered company no later than February 15 of that calendar year.

(2) *Additional components.* (i) The Board may require a covered company with significant trading activity, as determined by the Board and specified in the Capital Assessments and Stress Testing report (FR Y-14), to include a trading and counterparty component in its adverse and severely adverse scenarios in the stress test required by this section. For the stress test cycle beginning on October 1, 2014, the data used in this component must be as of a date between October 1 and December 1, 2014, as selected by the Board, and the Board will communicate the as-of date and a description of the component to the company no later than December 1, 2014. For the stress test cycle beginning on January 1, 2016, and for each stress test cycle beginning thereafter, the data used in this component must be as of a date between January 1 and March 1 of that calendar year selected by the Board, and the Board will communicate the as-of date and a description of the component to the company no later than March 1 of the relevant calendar year.

(ii) The Board may require a covered company to include one or more additional components in its adverse and severely adverse scenarios in the stress test required by this section based on the company's financial condition, size, complexity, risk profile, scope of operations, or activities, or risks to the U.S. economy.

(3) *Additional scenarios.* The Board may require a covered company to use one or more additional scenarios in the stress test required by this section based on the company's financial condition, size, complexity, risk profile, scope of operations, or activities, or risks to the U.S. economy.

(4) *Notice and response* - (i) *Notification of additional component.* If the Board requires a covered company to include one or more additional components in its adverse and severely adverse scenarios under paragraph (b)(2) of this section or to use one or more additional scenarios under paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the Board will notify the company in writing. For the stress test cycle beginning on October 1, 2014, the Board will provide such notification no later than September 30, 2014, and for each stress test cycle beginning thereafter, the Board will provide such notification no later than December 31 of the preceding calendar year. The notification will include a general description of the additional component(s) or additional scenario(s) and the basis for requiring the company to include the additional component(s) or additional scenario(s).

(ii) *Request for reconsideration and Board response.* Within 14 calendar days of receipt of a notification under this paragraph, the covered company may request in writing that the Board reconsider the requirement that the company include the additional component(s) or additional scenario(s), including an explanation as to why the reconsideration should be granted.

(iii) *Description of component.* The Board will respond in writing within 14 calendar days of receipt of the company's request. The Board will provide the covered company with a description of any additional component(s) or additional scenario(s) by December 1, 2014 (for the stress test cycle beginning on October 1, 2014) and by March 1 (for each stress test cycle beginning thereafter).