##### ยง 432.104 Addressing unacceptable performance. #####

Link to an amendment published at 87 FR 67782, Nov. 10, 2022.

At any time during the performance appraisal cycle that an employee's performance is determined to be unacceptable in one or more critical elements, the agency shall notify the employee of the critical element(s) for which performance is unacceptable and inform the employee of the performance requirement(s) or standard(s) that must be attained in order to demonstrate acceptable performance in his or her position. The agency should also inform the employee that unless his or her performance in the critical element(s) improves to and is sustained at an acceptable level, the employee may be reduced in grade or removed. For each critical element in which the employee's performance is unacceptable, the agency shall afford the employee a reasonable opportunity to demonstrate acceptable performance, commensurate with the duties and responsibilities of the employee's position. The requirement described in 5 U.S.C. 4302(c)(5) refers only to that formal assistance provided during the period wherein an employee is provided with an opportunity to demonstrate acceptable performance, as referenced in 5 U.S.C. 4302(c)(6). The nature of assistance provided is in the sole and exclusive discretion of the agency. No additional performance assistance period or similar informal period shall be provided prior to or in addition to the opportunity period provided under this section.

[85 FR 65982, Oct. 16, 2020]