##### ยง 826.70 Leave to care for a child due to school or place of care closure or child care unavailability - Intersection of the EFMLEA and the FMLA. #####

(a) Certain employees are entitled to a total of twelve workweeks of FMLA leave in the twelve-month period defined in ยง 825.200(b) of this chapter for the following reasons:

(1) The birth of the employee's son or daughter, and to care for the newborn child;

(2) The placement with the employee of a son or daughter for adoption or foster care, and to care for the newly placed child;

(3) To care for the employee's spouse, son, daughter, or parent with a serious health condition;

(4) Because of a serious health condition that makes the employee unable to perform one or more of the essential functions of his or her job;

(5) Because of any qualifying exigency arising out of the fact that the employee's spouse, son, daughter, or parent is a military member on covered active duty status (or has been notified of an impending call or order to covered active duty); and

(6) To care for the Eligible Employee's Son or Daughter whose School or Place of Care is closed, or Child Care Provider is unavailable, due to COVID-19 related reasons.

(b) If an Eligible Employee has already taken some FMLA leave for reasons (a)(1) through (5) during the twelve-month period, the Eligible Employee may take up to the remaining portion of the twelve workweek leave for Expanded Family and Medical Leave. If an Eligible Employee has already taken the full twelve workweeks of FMLA leave during the twelve-month period, the Eligible Employee may not take Expanded Family and Medical Leave. An Eligible Employee's entitlement to take up to two weeks of Paid Sick Leave under the EPSLA is not impacted by the Eligible Employee's use of FMLA leave. For example, if an Eligible Employee used his or her full FMLA leave entitlement for birth and bonding with a newborn, he or she would still be entitled to take Paid Sick Leave (for any covered reason), but could not take Expanded Family and Medical Leave in the same twelve-month period if his or her child's day care closed due to COVID-19 related reasons.

(c) If an Eligible Employee takes fewer than twelve weeks of Expanded Family and Medical Leave, the Employee may take up to the remaining portion of the twelve weeks FMLA leave entitlement for reasons described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section. For example, if an Eligible Employee takes eight weeks of Expanded Family and Medical Leave to care for his or her Son or Daughter whose School is closed due to COVID-19 related reasons, he or she could take up to four workweeks of unpaid FMLA leave for his or her own serious health condition later in the twelve-month period.

(d) If an employee has taken FMLA leave to care for a covered service member with a serious injury or illness, the remaining FMLA leave entitlement that may be used for Expanded Family and Medical Leave is calculated in accordance with ยง 825.127(e) of this chapter.

(e) An Eligible Employee can take a maximum of twelve workweeks of Expanded Family and Medical Leave during the period in which the leave may be taken (April 2, 2020 to December 31, 2020) even if that period spans two FMLA leave twelve-month periods. For example, if an Employer's twelve-month period begins on July 1, and an Eligible Employee took seven weeks of Expanded Family and Medical Leave in May and June, 2020, the Eligible Employee could only take up to five additional weeks of Expanded Family and Medical Leave between July 1 and December 31, 2020, even though the first seven weeks of Expanded Family and Medical Leave fell in the prior twelve-month period.

(f) The first two weeks of Expanded Family and Medical Leave may be unpaid and the Eligible Employee may substitute Paid Sick Leave under the EPSLA at two-thirds the Employee's regular rate of pay or accrued paid leave provided by the Employer during this period (see ยง 826.60). After the first two weeks of leave, Expanded Family and Medical Leave is paid at two-thirds the Eligible Employee's regular rate of pay, up to $200 per day per Eligible Employee. Because this period of Expanded Family and Medical Leave is not unpaid, the FMLA provision for substitution of the Employee's accrued paid leave is inapplicable, and neither the Eligible Employee nor the Employer may require the substitution of paid leave. However, Employers and Eligible Employees may agree, where Federal or state law permits, to have paid leave supplement pay under the EFMLEA so that the Employee receives the full amount of his or her normal pay. For example, an Eligible Employee and Employer may agree to supplement the Expanded Family and Medical Leave by substituting one-third hour of accrued vacation leave for each hour of Expanded Family and Medical Leave. If the Eligible Employee and Employer do not agree to supplement paid leave in the manner described above, the Employee will remain entitled to all the paid leave which is earned or accrued under the terms of the Employer's plan for later use. This option is not available to Federal agencies if such partial leave payment would be contrary to a governing statute or regulation.