##### ยง 826.120 Multiemployer plans. #####

(a) *Paid Sick Leave.* In accordance with its existing collective bargaining obligations, an Employer signatory to a multiemployer collective bargaining agreement may satisfy its obligations to provide Paid Sick Leave by making contributions to a multiemployer fund, plan, or other program. Such contributions must be based on the hours of Paid Sick Leave to which each Employee is entitled under the EPSLA according to each Employee's work under the multi-employer collective bargaining agreement.

(b) *Expanded Family and Medical Leave.* In accordance with its existing collective bargaining obligations, an Employer signatory to a multiemployer collective bargaining agreement may satisfy its obligations to provide Expanded Family and Medical Leave by making contributions to a multiemployer fund, plan, or other program. Such contributions must be based on the hours of paid family and medical leave to which each Eligible Employee is entitled under the EFMLEA, according to each Eligible Employee's work under the multiemployer collective bargaining agreement.

(c) *Employee access.* Any multiemployer fund, plan, or program under section (a) or (b) of this section must enable or otherwise allow Employees to secure payments for Paid Sick Leave or Expanded Family and Medical Leave. If the multiemployer fund, plan, or program does not enable or otherwise allow Employees to secure payments for paid leave to which they are entitled under the FFCRA based on their work under the multiemployer collective bargaining agreement, the multiemployer fund, plan, or program does not satisfy the requirements of the FFCRA.

(d) *Alternative means of compliance.* In accordance with its existing collective bargaining obligations, an Employer signatory to a multiemployer collective bargaining agreement may satisfy its obligations to provide Paid Sick Leave under the EPSLA or Expanded Family and Medical Leave under the EFMLEA by means other than those set forth in paragraph (a) and (b) of this section, provided such means are consistent with its existing bargaining obligations and any applicable collective bargaining agreement.