##### ยง 826.90 Employee notice of need for leave. #####

(a) *Requirement to provide notice.* (1) An Employer may require an Employee to follow reasonable notice procedures after the first workday (or portion thereof) for which an Employee takes Paid Sick Leave for any reason other than that described in ยง 826.20(a)(1)(v). Whether a procedure is reasonable will be determined under the facts and circumstances of each particular case. Nothing in this section precludes an Employee from offering notice to an Employer sooner; the Department encourages, but does not require, Employees to notify Employers about their request for Paid Sick Leave or Expanded Family and Medical Leave as soon as practicable. If an Employee fails to give proper notice, the Employer should give him or her notice of the failure and an opportunity to provide the required documentation prior to denying the request for leave.

(2) In any case where an Employee requests leave in order to care for the Employee's Son or Daughter whose School or Place of Care is closed, or Child Care Provider is unavailable, due to COVID-19 related reasons, if that leave was foreseeable, an Employee shall provide the Employer with notice of such Paid Sick Leave or Expanded Family and Medical Leave as soon as practicable. If an Employee fails to give proper notice, the Employer should give him or her notice of the failure and an opportunity to provide the required documentation prior to denying the request for leave.

(b) *Timing and delivery of notice.* Notice may not be required in advance, and may only be required after the first workday (or portion thereof) for which an Employee takes Paid Sick Leave or Expanded Family and Medical Leave. After the first workday, it will be reasonable for an Employer to require notice as soon as practicable under the facts and circumstances of the particular case. Generally, it will be reasonable for notice to be given by the Employee's spokesperson (*e.g.,* spouse, adult family member, or other responsible party) if the Employee is unable to do so personally.

(c) *Content of notice.* Generally, it will be reasonable for an Employer to require oral notice and sufficient information for an Employer to determine whether the requested leave is covered by the EPSLA or the EFMLEA. An Employer may not require the notice to include documentation beyond what is allowed by ยง 826.100.

(d) *Complying with Employer policy.* Generally, it will be reasonable for the Employer to require the Employee to comply with the Employer's usual and customary notice and procedural requirements for requesting leave, absent unusual circumstances.