cfr/title-29-Labor/subtitle-B-Regulations-Relating-Labor/chapter-V-Wage-Hour-Division-Department-Labor/subchapter-C-Other-Laws/part-826-Paid-Leave-Under-Families-First-Coronavirus-Response-Act-Eff-until-123120/section-826.22.md, before:

##### § 826.22 Amount of pay for Paid Sick Leave. #####

(a) Subject to § 826.22(c), for each hour of Pick Sick Leave taken by an Employee for qualifying reasons set forth in sections § 826.20(a)(1) through(3), the Employer shall pay the higher of:

(1) The Employee's average regular rate as computed under § 826.25;

(2) The Federal minimum wage to which the Employee is entitled; or

(3) Any State or local minimum wage to which the Employee is entitled.

(b) Subject to § 826.22(c), for each hour of Paid Sick Leave taken by an Employee for qualifying reasons set forth in § 826.20(a)(4) through (6), the Employer shall pay the Employee two-thirds of the amount described in § 826.24(a).

(c) Limitations on payments:

(1) In no event shall an Employer be required to pay more than $511 per day and $5,110 in the aggregate per Employee when an Employee takes Paid Sick Leave for qualifying reasons set forth in sections § 826.20(a)(1) through (3).

(2) In no event shall an Employer be required to pay more than $200 per day and $2,000 in the aggregate per Employee when an Employee takes Paid Sick Leave for qualifying reasons set forth in sections § 826.20(a)(4) through (6).

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2020-04-10 issue
Title: 21: Food and Drugs - Sections changed: 2
Title: 29: Labor - Sections changed: 2
Title: 31: Money and Finance: Treasury - Sections changed: 11
Title: 40: Protection of Environment - Sections changed: 14

cfr/title-29-Labor/subtitle-B-Regulations-Relating-Labor/chapter-V-Wage-Hour-Division-Department-Labor/subchapter-C-Other-Laws/part-826-Paid-Leave-Under-Families-First-Coronavirus-Response-Act-Eff-until-123120/section-826.22.md, after:

##### § 826.22 Amount of pay for Paid Sick Leave. #####

(a) Subject to paragraph (c) of this section, for each hour of Paid Sick Leave taken by an Employee for qualifying reasons set forth in § 826.20(a)(1)(i) through (iii), the Employer shall pay the higher of:

(1) The Employee's average regular rate as computed under § 826.25;

(2) The Federal minimum wage to which the Employee is entitled; or

(3) Any State or local minimum wage to which the Employee is entitled.

(b) Subject to paragraph (c) of this section, for each hour of Paid Sick Leave taken by an Employee for qualifying reasons set forth in § 826.20(a)(1)(iv) through (vi), the Employer shall pay the Employee two-thirds of the amount described in § 826.24(a).

(c) The limitations on payments are as follows:

(1) In no event shall an Employer be required to pay more than $511 per day and $5,110 in the aggregate per Employee when an Employee takes Paid Sick Leave for qualifying reasons set forth in § 826.20(a)(1)(i) through (iii).

(2) In no event shall an Employer be required to pay more than $200 per day and $2,000 in the aggregate per Employee when an Employee takes Paid Sick Leave for qualifying reasons set forth in § 826.20(a)(1)(iv) through (vi).

[85 FR 20157, Apr. 10, 2020]
