##### ยง 1081.304 Record of the hearing. #####

(a) *Reporting and transcription.* Hearings shall be stenographically reported and transcribed under the supervision of the hearing officer, and the original transcript shall be a part of the record and the sole official transcript. The live oral testimony of each witness may be video recorded digitally, in which case the video recording and the written transcript of the testimony shall be made part of the record. Copies of transcripts shall be available from the reporter at prescribed rates.

(b) *Corrections.* Corrections of the official transcript may be made only when they involve errors affecting substance and then only in the manner herein provided. Corrections ordered by the hearing officer or agreed to in a written stipulation signed by all counsel and parties not represented by counsel, and approved by the hearing officer, shall be included in the record, and such stipulations, except to the extent they are capricious or without substance, shall be approved by the hearing officer. Corrections shall not be ordered by the hearing officer except upon notice and opportunity for the hearing of objections. Such corrections shall be made by the official reporter by furnishing substitute type pages, under the usual certificate of the reporter, for insertion in the official record. The original uncorrected pages shall be retained in the files of the Bureau.

(c) *Closing of the hearing record.* Upon completion of the hearing, the hearing officer shall issue an order closing the hearing record after giving the parties three days to determine if the record is complete or needs to be supplemented. The hearing officer shall retain the discretion to permit or order correction of the record as provided in paragraph (b) of this section.