##### § 210.3 Governing law. #####

(a) *Federal law.* The rights and obligations of the United States and the Federal Reserve Banks with respect to all Government entries, and the rights of any person or recipient against the United States and the Federal Reserve Banks in connection with any Government entry, are governed by this part, which has the force and effect of Federal law.

(b) *Incorporation by reference - applicable ACH Rules.* (1) This part incorporates by reference the applicable ACH Rules, including rule changes with an effective date on or before September 21, 2013, as published in the “2013 NACHA Operating Rules and Guidelines: A Complete Guide to Rules Governing the ACH Network.” The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies of the “2013 NACHA Operating Rules and Guidelines” are available from NACHA - The Electronic Payments Association, 13450 Sunrise Valley Drive, Suite 100, Herndon, Virginia 20171. Copies also are available for public inspection at the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, 401 14th Street SW., Room 400B, Washington, DC 20227, tel. 202-874-6680 and at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, visit *http://www.archives.gov/federal\_register/code\_of\_federal\_regulations/ibr\_locations.html* or call 202-741-6030.

(2) Any amendment to the applicable ACH Rules that is approved by NACHA - The Electronic Payments Association after September 21, 2013 shall not apply to Government entries unless the Service expressly accepts such amendment by publishing notice of acceptance of the amendment to this part in the Federal Register. An amendment to the ACH Rules that is accepted by the Service shall apply to Government entries on the effective date of the rulemaking specified by the Service in the Federal Register notice expressly accepting such amendment.

(c) *Application of this part.* Any person or entity that originates or receives a Government entry agrees to be bound by this part and to comply with all instructions and procedures issued by the Service under this part, including the Treasury Financial Manual and the Green Book. The Treasury Financial Manual is available for downloading at the Service's web site at *http://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/* or by calling (202) 874-9940 or writing the Directives Management Branch, Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury, 3700 East West Highway, Room 500C, Hyattsville, MD 20782. The Green Book is available for downloading at the Service's web site at *http://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/fmsnews.html* or by calling (202) 874-6540 or writing the Product Promotion Division, Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury, 401 14th Street, SW., Room 309, Washington, DC 20227.

[64 FR 17478, Apr. 9, 1999, as amended at 65 FR 18869, Apr. 7, 2000; 66 FR 10580, Feb. 16, 2001; 67 FR 17903, Apr. 11, 2002; 68 FR 33830, June 5, 2003; 69 FR 18803, Apr. 9, 2004; 70 FR 67367, Nov. 7, 2005; 73 FR 52584, Sept. 10, 2008; 76 FR 59030, Sept. 23, 2011; 79 FR 42980, July 24, 2014]