cfr/title-13-Business-Credit-Assistance/chapter-I-Small-Business-Administration/part-126-HUBZone-Program/subpart-F-Contracting-Certified-HUBZone-Small-Business-Concerns/section-126.601.md, before:

##### § 126.601 What additional requirements must a certified HUBZone small business concern meet to submit an offer on a HUBZone contract? #####

Link to an amendment published at 84 FR 65664, Nov. 29, 2019.

(a) Only certified HUBZone small business concerns are eligible to submit offers for a HUBZone contract or to receive a price evaluation preference under § 126.613.

(b) At the time a certified HUBZone small business concern submits its initial offer (including price) on a specific HUBZone contract, it must certify to the contracting officer that it:

(1) Is a certified HUBZone small business concern in DSBS (or successor system);

(2) Is small, together with its affiliates, at the time of its offer under the size standard corresponding to the NAICS code assigned to the procurement;

(3) Will “attempt to maintain” having at least 35% of its employees residing in a HUBZone during the performance of the contract, as set forth in § 126.200(e); and

(4) Will comply with the applicable limitations on subcontracting during performance of the contract, as set forth in § 125.6 of this chapter and §§ 126.200(f) and 126.700.

(c) A certified HUBZone small business concern may submit an offer on a HUBZone contract for supplies as a nonmanufacturer if it meets the requirements of the nonmanufacturer rule set forth at § 121.406 of this chapter.

[84 FR 65247, Nov. 26, 2019]

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2019-12-30 issue
Title: 12: Banks and Banking - Sections changed: 4
Title: 13: Business Credit and Assistance - Sections changed: 18
Title: 10: Energy - Sections changed: 64
Title: 21: Food and Drugs - Sections changed: 186
Title: 32: National Defense - Sections changed: 6
Title: 33: Navigation and Navigable Waters - Sections changed: 2
Title: 40: Protection of Environment - Sections changed: 3
Title: 50: Wildlife and Fisheries - Sections changed: 17

cfr/title-13-Business-Credit-Assistance/chapter-I-Small-Business-Administration/part-126-HUBZone-Program/subpart-F-Contracting-Certified-HUBZone-Small-Business-Concerns/section-126.601.md, after:

##### § 126.601 What additional requirements must a certified HUBZone small business concern meet to submit an offer on a HUBZone contract? #####

(a) Only certified HUBZone small business concerns are eligible to submit offers for a HUBZone contract or to receive a price evaluation preference under § 126.613.

(b) At the time a certified HUBZone small business concern submits its initial offer (including price) on a specific HUBZone contract, it must certify to the contracting officer that it:

(1) Is a certified HUBZone small business concern in DSBS (or successor system);

(2) Is small, together with its affiliates, at the time of its offer under the size standard corresponding to the NAICS code assigned to the procurement;

(3) Will “attempt to maintain” having at least 35% of its employees residing in a HUBZone during the performance of the contract, as set forth in § 126.200(e); and

(4) Will comply with the applicable limitations on subcontracting during performance of the contract, as set forth in § 125.6 of this chapter and §§ 126.200(f) and 126.700.

(c) A certified HUBZone small business concern may submit an offer on a HUBZone contract for supplies as a nonmanufacturer if it meets the requirements of the nonmanufacturer rule set forth at § 121.406 of this chapter.

(i) *Ostensible subcontractor.* Where a subcontractor that is not similarly situated performs primary and vital requirements of a set-aside service contract, or where a prime contractor is unduly reliant on a small business that is not similarly situated to perform the set-aside service contract, the prime contractor is not eligible for award of a HUBZone contract.

(1) When the subcontractor is small for the size standard assigned to the procurement, this issue may be grounds for a HUBZone status protest, as described in subpart H of this part. When the subcontractor is alleged to be other than small for the size standard assigned to the procurement, this issue may be grounds for a size protest under the ostensible subcontractor rule, as described at § 121.103(h)(4) of this chapter.

(2) SBA will find that a prime HUBZone contractor is performing the primary and vital requirements of a contract or order and is not unduly reliant on one or more non-similarly situated subcontracts where the prime contractor can demonstrate that it, together with any similarly situated entity, will meet the limitations on subcontracting provisions set forth in § 125.6.

[84 FR 65247, Nov. 26, 2019, as amended at 84 FR 65664, Nov. 29, 2019]Editorial Note:At 84 FR 65664, Nov. 29, 2019, § 126.601(h) was amended; however, the amendment could not be incorporated because paragraph (h) does not currently exist in that section.
