##### ยง 543.31 Filing a claim. #####

(a) *Who may file a claim?* You may file a claim if you are the injured person or the owner of the damaged or lost property. A person acting on your behalf as an agent, executor, administrator, parent, guardian, or other representative may file a claim for you if the person provides a written statement signed by you giving that person permission to act for you. A representative may also file a claim for wrongful death. If you hire a lawyer or authorize a representative to act on your behalf, the agency will correspond only with that representative, and will not continue to correspond with you.

(b) *Where do I obtain a form for filing a claim?* You may obtain a form from staff in the Central Office, Regional Offices, Bureau institutions, or staff training centers.

(c) *Where do I file the claim?* You may either mail or deliver the claim to the regional office in the region where the claim occurred. If the loss or injury occurred in a specific regional office or within the geographical boundaries of the region, you may either mail or deliver the claim to that regional office. If the loss or injury occurred in the Central Office, you may either mail or deliver the claim to the Office of General Counsel, Central Office. If the loss or injury occurred in one of the training centers, you may either mail or deliver the claim to the Associate General Counsel, Federal Law Enforcement Training Center. 28 CFR part 503 contains information on locating Bureau of Prisons addresses.

[65 FR 34364, May 26, 2000, as amended at 70 FR 67091, Nov. 4, 2005]