##### § 503.1 Scope and procedures. #####

(a) *In general.* The Privacy Act regulations of the Department of the Treasury, 31 CFR part 1, subpart C, apply to the Office as a component part of the Department of the Treasury. This part 503 sets forth, for the Office, specific notification and access procedures with respect to particular systems of records, and identifies the officials designated to make the initial determinations with respect to notification and access to records and accountings of disclosures of records. This part 503 also sets forth the specific procedures for requesting amendment of records and identifies the officials designated to make the initial and appellate determinations with respect to requests for amendment of records. It identifies the officials designated to grant extensions of time on appeal, the officials with whom “Statements of Disagreement” may be filed, the official designated to receive service of process and the addresses for delivery of requests, appeals, and service of process. In addition, it references the notice of systems of records and notices of the routine uses of the information in the system required by 5 U.S.C. 552a(e) (4) and (11) and published annually by the Office of the Federal Register in “Privacy Act Issuances.”

(b) *Requests for notification and access to records and accountings of disclosures.* Initial determinations under 31 CFR 1.26, whether to grant requests for notification and access to records and accountings of disclosures for the Office, will be made by the head of the organizational unit having immediate custody of the records requested or an official designated by this official. This is indicated in the appropriate system notice in “Privacy Act Issuances” published annually by the Office of the Federal Register. Requests for information and specific guidance on where to send requests for records may be mailed or delivered personally to: Privacy Act Request, Manager, Dissemination Branch, Information Management & Services Division, Office of Thrift Supervision, 1700 G Street, NW., Washington, DC 20552.

(c) *Requests for amendment of records.* Initial determinations under 31 CFR 1.27(a) through (d), whether to grant requests to amend records will be made by the head of the organizational unit having immediate custody of the records or the delegate of such official. Requests for amendment should be addressed to: Privacy Act Amendment Request, Manager, Dissemination Branch, Information Management & Services Division, Office of Thrift Supervision, 1700 G Street, NW., Washington, DC 20552.

(d) *Administrative appeal of initial determinations refusing amendment of records.* Appellate determinations refusing amendment of records under 31 CFR 1.27(e) including extensions of time on appeal, with respect to records of the Office will be made by the Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision (“Director”) or Chief Counsel or the delegate of the Director or Chief Counsel. Appeals made by mail should be addressed to, or delivered personally to: Privacy Act Amendment Appeal, Deputy Chief Counsel for General Law, Office of Thrift Supervision, 1700 G Street, NW., Washington, DC 20552.

(e) *Statements of disagreement.* “Statements of Disagreement” under 31 CFR 1.27(e)(4)(i) shall be filed with the Deputy Director for Washington Operations at the address indicated in the letter of notification within 35 days of the date of such notification and should be limited to one page.

(f) *Service of process.* Service of process will be received by the Chief Counsel's Office or the delegate of such official and shall be delivered to the following location: Chief Counsel's Office, Office of Thrift Supervision, 1700 G Street, NW., Washington, DC 20552.

(g) *Annual notice of systems of records.* The annual notice of systems of records is published by the Office of the Federal Register, as specified in 5 U.S.C. 552a(f). The publication is entitled “Privacy Act Issuance.” Any specific requirements for access, including identification requirements, in addition to the requirements set forth in 31 CFR 1.26 and 1.27 are indicated in the notice for the pertinent system.

[54 FR 49443, Nov. 30, 1989, as amended at 59 FR 18475, Apr. 19, 1994; 64 FR 69184, Dec. 10, 1999]