##### § 1.669(a)-1A Amount allocated. #####

(a) *In general.* After a trust has distributed all of its undistributed net income, the rules concerning the treatment of capital gain distributions (prescribed under section 669) may become applicable to an accumulation distribution. This section prescribes rules to determine from which years capital gain distributions are considered to be made. For the definition of “capital gain distribution,” see § 1.665(g)-1A. Section 669 does not apply to a trust that has distributed all of its income currently since its inception. See § 1.668(a)-1A(c). Capital gain retains its character in the hands of the beneficiary. See § 1.669(f)-1A. A capital gain distribution to more than one beneficiary will be allocated among them. See § 16.668(a)-2A.

(b) *First-in, first-out rule.* A capital gain distribution is allocated to the preceding taxable years of the trust (as defined in § 1.665(e)-1A(a)(1)(iii)), according to the undistributed capital gain of the trust for such years. For this purpose, a capital gain distribution is first allocated to the earliest such preceding taxable year in which there is undistributed capital gain and shall then be allocated in turn, beginning with the next earliest, to any remaining preceding taxable years of the trust. The portion of the capital gain distribution allocated to the earliest preceding taxable year is the amount of undistributed capital gain for that preceding taxable year. The portion of the capital gain distribution allocated to any preceding taxable year subsequent to the earliest such preceding taxable year is the excess of the capital gain distribution over the aggregate of the undistributed capital gain for all earlier preceding taxable years. See paragraph (c) of this section for adjustments to undistributed capital gain for prior distributions.

(c) *Reduction of undistributed capital gain for prior capital gain distributions.* For the purposes of allocating to any preceding taxable year a capital gain distribution of the taxable year, the undistributed capital gain of such preceding taxable year is reduced by the amount from such year deemed distributed in any capital gain distribution made in any taxable year intervening between such preceding taxable year and the taxable year. Accordingly, for example, if a trust subject to the capital gain throwback has no undistributed net income but has undistributed capital gain for 1974, and makes capital gain distributions during the taxable years 1978 and 1979, then in determining that part of the 1979 capital gain distribution that is thrown back to 1974, the undistributed capital gain for 1974 is reduced by the amount of such undistributed capital gain for 1974 deemed distributed in the 1978 capital gain distribution.

(d) *Rule when no undistributed capital gain.* If, before the application of the provisions of subpart D to a capital gain distribution for the taxable year, there is no undistributed capital gain for a preceding taxable year, then no portion of the capital gain distribution is deemed distributed on the last day of such preceding taxable year. Thus, for example, if a capital gain distribution is made during the taxable year 1975 from a trust whose earliest preceding taxable year is taxable year 1970, and the trust had no undistributed capital gain for 1970, then no portion of the 1975 capital gain distribution is deemed distributed on the last day of 1970.

(e) *Example.* The provisions of this section may be illustrated by the following example:

Example.In 1977, a trust reporting on the calendar year basis makes a capital gain distribution of $33,000. In 1969, the trust had $6,000 of undistributed capital gain; in 1970, $4,000; in 1971, none; in 1972, $7,000; in 1973, $5,000; in 1974, $8,000; in 1975, $6,000; in 1976, $4,000; and $6,000 in 1977. The capital gain distribution is deemed distributed $6,000 in 1969, $4,000 in 1970, none in 1971, $7,000 in 1972, $5,000 in 1973, $8,000 in 1974, and $3,000 in 1975.[T.D. 7204, 37 FR 17153, Aug. 25, 1972]