##### § 1.965-8 Affiliated groups (including consolidated groups). #####

(a) *Scope.* This section provides rules for applying section 965 and the section 965 regulations to members of an affiliated group (as defined in section 1504(a)), including members of a consolidated group (as defined in § 1.1502-1(h)). Paragraph (b) of this section provides guidance regarding the application of section 965(b)(5) to determine the section 965(a) inclusion amounts of a member of an affiliated group. Paragraph (c) of this section provides guidance for designating the source of aggregate unused E&P deficits. Paragraph (d) provides rules regarding earning and profits and stock basis adjustments. Paragraph (e) of this section provides rules that treat members of a consolidated group as a single person for certain purposes. Paragraph (f) of this section provides definitions that apply for purposes of this section. Paragraph (g) of this section provides examples illustrating the application of this section.

(b) *Reduction of E&P net surplus shareholder's pro rata share of the section 965(a) earnings amount of a deferred foreign income corporation by the allocable share of the applicable share of the aggregate unused E&P deficit*—(1) *In general.* This paragraph (b) applies after the application of § 1.965-1(b)(2) for purposes of determining the section 965(a) inclusion amount with respect to a deferred foreign income corporation of a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder that is both an E&P net surplus shareholder and a member of an affiliated group in which not all members are members of the same consolidated group. If this paragraph (b) applies, the U.S. dollar amount of the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's pro rata share of the section 965(a) earnings amount of the deferred foreign income corporation is further reduced (but not below zero) by the deferred foreign income corporation's allocable share of the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's applicable share of the affiliated group's aggregate unused E&P deficit.

(2) *Consolidated group as part of an affiliated group.* If some, but not all, members of an affiliated group are members of a consolidated group, then the consolidated group is treated as a single member of the affiliated group for purposes of § 1.965-1(b)(2) and paragraph (b)(1) of this section.

(c) *Designation of portion of excess aggregate foreign E&P deficit taken into account*—(1) *In general.* This paragraph (c) provides rules for designating the source of an aggregate unused E&P deficit of an affiliated group that is not also a consolidated group taken into account under section 965(b)(5) and paragraph (b) of this section if the amount described in paragraph (f)(1)(i)(A) of this section with respect to the affiliated group exceeds the amount described in paragraph (f)(1)(i)(B) of this section with respect to the affiliated group. If this paragraph (c)(1) applies, each member of the affiliated group that is an E&P net deficit shareholder must designate by maintaining in its books and records a statement (identical to the statement maintained by all other such members) setting forth the portion of the excess aggregate foreign E&P deficit of the E&P net deficit shareholder taken into account under section 965(b)(5) and paragraph (b) of this section. See § 1.965-2(d)(2)(ii)(B) for a rule for designating the portion of a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's pro rata share of a specified E&P deficit of an E&P deficit foreign corporation taken into account under section 965(b), § 1.965-1(b)(2), and paragraph (b) of this section, as applicable.

(2) *Consolidated group as part of an affiliated group.* If some, but not all, members of an affiliated group are properly treated as members of a consolidated group, then the consolidated group is treated as a single member of the affiliated group for purposes of applying paragraph (c)(1) of this section.

(d) *Adjustments to earning and profits and stock basis.*

(1) [Reserved]

(2) *Consolidated groups.* See § 1.1502-33(d)(1) for adjustments to members' earnings and profits and § 1.1502-32(b)(3) for adjustments to members' basis.

(e) *Treatment of a consolidated group or other affiliated group as a single section 958(a) U.S. shareholder or a single person*—(1) *In general.* All members of a consolidated group that are section 958(a) U.S. shareholders of a specified foreign corporation are treated as a single section 958(a) U.S. shareholder for purposes of section 965(b), § 1.965-1(b)(2), and § 1.965-3. Furthermore, all members of a consolidated group are treated as a single person for purposes of paragraphs (h), (k), and (n) of section 965 and § 1.965-7. In addition, all members of an affiliated group that are section 958(a) U.S. shareholders of a specified foreign corporation are treated as a single section 958(a) U.S. shareholder for purposes of § 1.965-2(f). Thus, for example, any election governed by section 965(h) and § 1.965-7(b) must be made by the agent (within the meaning of § 1.1502-77) of the group as a single election on behalf of all members of the consolidated group. Similarly, the determination of whether the transfer of assets by one member to a non-member of the consolidated group would constitute an acceleration event under § 1.965-7(b)(3)(ii)(B) takes into account all of the assets of the consolidated group, which for purposes of this determination, includes all of the assets of each consolidated group member. In analyzing issues relating to the transfer of assets of a consolidated group, appropriate adjustments are made to prevent the duplication of assets or asset value.

(2) *Limitation.* Paragraph (e)(1) of this section does not apply to treat all members of a consolidated group as a single section 958(a) U.S. shareholder or a single person, as applicable, for purposes of determining the amount of any member's inclusion under section 951 (including a section 965(a) inclusion), the foreign income taxes deemed paid with respect to a section 965(a) inclusion (see sections 960 and 902), or any purpose other than those specifically listed in paragraph (e)(1) of this section or another provision of the section 965 regulations.

(3) *Determination of section 965(c) deduction amount.* For purposes of determining the section 965(c) deduction amount of any section 958(a) U.S. shareholder that is a member of a consolidated group, the aggregate foreign cash position of the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder is equal to the aggregate section 965(a) inclusion amount of the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder multiplied by the group cash ratio of the consolidated group.

(f) *Definitions.* This paragraph (f) provides definitions that apply for purposes of applying the section 965 regulations to members of an affiliated group, including members of a consolidated group.

(1) *Aggregate unused E&P deficit*—(i) *General rule.* The term *aggregate unused E&P deficit* means, with respect to an affiliated group, the lesser of—

(A) The sum of the excess aggregate foreign E&P deficit with respect to each E&P net deficit shareholder that is a member of the affiliated group, or

(B) The amount determined under paragraph (f)(3)(ii) of this section.

(ii) *Reduction with respect to E&P net deficit shareholders that are not wholly owned by the affiliated group.* If the group ownership percentage of an E&P net deficit shareholder is less than 100 percent, the amount of the excess aggregate foreign E&P deficit with respect to the E&P net deficit shareholder that is taken into account under paragraph (f)(1)(i) of this section is the product of the group ownership percentage multiplied by the excess aggregate foreign E&P deficit.

(2) *Allocable share.* The term *allocable share* means, with respect to a deferred foreign income corporation and an E&P net surplus shareholder's applicable share of an aggregate unused E&P deficit of an affiliated group, the product of the E&P net surplus shareholder's applicable share of the affiliated group's aggregate unused E&P deficit and the ratio described in § 1.965-1(f)(11) with respect to the deferred foreign income corporation.

(3) *Applicable share.* The term *applicable share* means, with respect to an E&P net surplus shareholder and an aggregate unused E&P deficit of an affiliated group, the amount that bears the same proportion to the affiliated group's aggregate unused E&P deficit as—

(i) The product of—

(A) The E&P net surplus shareholder's group ownership percentage, multiplied by

(B) The amount that would (but for section 965(b)(5) and paragraph (b) of this section) constitute the E&P net surplus shareholder's aggregate section 965(a) inclusion amount, bears to

(ii) The aggregate amount determined under paragraph (f)(3)(i) of this section with respect to all E&P net surplus shareholders that are members of the group.

(4) *Consolidated group aggregate foreign cash position.* The term *consolidated group aggregate foreign cash position* means, with respect to a consolidated group, the aggregate foreign cash position (as defined in § 1.965-1(f)(8)(i)) determined by treating each member of the consolidated group that is a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder as a single section 958(a) U.S. shareholder pursuant to paragraph (e)(1) of this section.

(5) *E&P net deficit shareholder.* The term *E&P net deficit shareholder* means a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder that has an excess aggregate foreign E&P deficit.

(6) *E&P net surplus shareholder.* The term *E&P net surplus shareholder* means a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder that would (but for section 965(b)(5) and paragraph (b) of this section) have an aggregate section 965(a) inclusion amount greater than zero.

(7) *Excess aggregate foreign E&P deficit.* The term *excess aggregate foreign E&P deficit* means, with respect to a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder, the amount, if any, by which the amount described in § 1.965-1(f)(9)(i) with respect to the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder exceeds the amount described in § 1.965-1(f)(9)(ii) with respect to the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder.

(8) *Group cash ratio.* The term *group cash ratio* means, with respect to a consolidated group, the ratio of—

(i) The consolidated group aggregate foreign cash position, to

(ii) The sum of the aggregate section 965(a) inclusion amounts of all members of the consolidated group.

(9) *Group ownership percentage.* The term *group ownership percentage* means, with respect to a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder that is a member of an affiliated group, the percentage of the value of the stock of the United States shareholder which is held by other includible corporations in the affiliated group. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, the group ownership percentage of the common parent of the affiliated group is 100 percent. Any term used in this paragraph (f)(9) that is also used in section 1504 has the same meaning as when used in such section. Additionally, if the term is used in the context of a rule for which all members of a consolidated group are treated as a single section 958(a) U.S. shareholder under paragraph (e)(1) of this section, then the group ownership percentage is determined solely with respect to the value of the stock of the common parent of the consolidated group held by other includible corporations that are not members of the consolidated group.

(g) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the application of this section.

Example 1.(1) *Application of affiliated group rule*—(i) *Facts*—(A) *In general.* USP owns all of the stock of USS1, USS2, and USS3. Each of USP, USS1, USS2, and USS3 is a domestic corporation and is a member of an affiliated group of which USP is the common parent (the “USP Group”). The USP Group has not elected to file a consolidated federal income tax return. USS1 owns all of the stock of CFC1 and CFC2, USS2 owns all of the stock of CFC3, and USS3 owns all of the stock of CFC4. Each of CFC1, CFC2, CFC3, and CFC4 is a controlled foreign corporation within the meaning of section 957(a), and, therefore, each is a specified foreign corporation under section 965(e) and § 1.965-1(f)(45). Each of USP, USS1, USS2, USS3, CFC1, CFC2, CFC3, and CFC4 has the calendar year as its taxable year.

(B) *Facts relating to section 965.* CFC1 and CFC3 are deferred foreign income corporations with section 965(a) earnings amounts of $600x and $300x, respectively. CFC1 and CFC3 have cash positions of $0x and $50x, respectively, on each of their cash measurement dates. CFC2 and CFC4 are E&P deficit foreign corporations with specified E&P deficits of $400x and $100x, respectively. CFC2 and CFC4 have cash positions of $100x and $50x, respectively, on each of their cash measurement dates. The cash positions all consist solely of cash. CFC1, CFC2, CFC3, and CFC4 all use the U.S. dollar as their functional currency.

(ii) *Analysis*—(A) *Section 965(a) inclusion amounts before application of section 965(b)(5).* USS1 is a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder with respect to CFC1 and CFC2; USS2 is a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder with respect to CFC3; and USS3 is a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder with respect to CFC4. USS1's pro rata share of CFC1's section 965(a) earnings amount is $600x. Under section 965(b)(3)(A) and § 1.965-1(f)(9), USS1's aggregate foreign E&P deficit is $400x, the lesser of the aggregate of USS1's pro rata share of the specified E&P deficit of each E&P deficit foreign corporation ($400x) and the amount described in § 1.965-1(f)(9)(ii) with respect to USS1 ($600x). Under section 965(b) and § 1.965-1(b)(2), in determining its section 965(a) inclusion amount with respect to CFC1, USS1 reduces its pro rata share of the U.S. dollar amount of section 965(a) earnings amount of CFC1 by CFC1's allocable share of USS1's aggregate foreign E&P deficit. CFC1's allocable share of USS1's aggregate foreign E&P deficit is $400x, which is the product of USS1's aggregate foreign E&P deficit ($400x) and 1, which is the ratio determined by dividing USS1's pro rata share of the section 965(a) earnings amount of CFC1 ($600x), by the amount described in § 1.965-1(f)(9)(ii) with respect to USS1 ($600x). Accordingly, under section 965(b) and § 1.965-1(b)(2) (before applying section 965(b)(5) and paragraph (b) of this section), USS1's section 965(a) inclusion amount with respect to CFC1 would be $200x (USS1's pro rata share of the section 965(a) earnings amount of CFC1 of $600x reduced by CFC1's allocable share of USS1's aggregate foreign E&P deficit of $400x). Under section 965(b) and § 1.965-1(b)(2) (before applying section 965(b)(5) and paragraph (b) of this section), USS2's section 965(a) inclusion amount with respect to CFC3 would be $300x (USS2's pro rata share of the section 965(a) earnings amount of CFC3).

(B) *Application of section 965(b)(5)*—(*1*) *Determination of E&P net surplus shareholders and E&P net deficit shareholders.* USS1 is an E&P net surplus shareholder because it would have an aggregate section 965(a) inclusion amount of $200x but for the application of section 965(b)(5) and paragraph (b) of this section. USS2 is also an E&P net surplus shareholder because it would have an aggregate section 965(a) inclusion amount of $300x but for the application of section 965(b)(5) and paragraph (b) of this section. USS3 is an E&P net deficit shareholder because it has an excess aggregate foreign E&P deficit of $100x.

(*2*) *Determining section 965(a) inclusion amounts under section 965(b)(5).* Under section 965(b) and paragraph (b) of this section, for purposes of determining the section 965(a) inclusion amount of a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder with respect to a deferred foreign income corporation, if, after applying § 1.965-1(b)(2), the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder is an E&P net surplus shareholder, then the U.S. dollar amount of the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's pro rata share of the section 965(a) earnings amount of the deferred foreign income corporation is further reduced (but not below zero) by the deferred foreign income corporation's allocable share of the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder's applicable share of the affiliated group's aggregate unused E&P deficit. USS3 is the only E&P net deficit shareholder in the USP Group, and, therefore, the aggregate unused E&P deficit of the USP Group is equal to USS3's excess aggregate foreign E&P deficit ($100x). The applicable share of the USP Group's aggregate unused E&P deficit of each of USS1 and USS2, respectively, is an amount that bears the same proportion to the USP Group's aggregate unused E&P deficit as the product of the group ownership percentage of USS1 and USS2, respectively, multiplied by the amount that would (but for section 965(b)(5) and paragraph (b) of this section) constitute the aggregate section 965(a) inclusion amount of USS1 and USS2, respectively, bears to the aggregate of such amounts with respect to both USS1 and USS2. Therefore, USS1's applicable share of the USP Group's aggregate unused E&P deficit is $40 ($100x × ($200x/($200x + $300x))) and USS2's applicable share of the USP Group's aggregate unused E&P deficit is $60x ($100x × ($300x/($200x + $300x))). Because USS1 is a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder with respect to only one deferred foreign income corporation, the entire $40x of USS1's applicable share of the USP Group's aggregate unused E&P deficit is treated as CFC1's allocable share of USS1's applicable share of the USP Group's aggregate unused E&P deficit, and thus USS1's section 965(a) inclusion amount with respect to CFC1 is reduced to $160x ($200x−$40x). Because USS2 is a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder with respect to only one deferred foreign income corporation, the entire $60x of USS2's applicable share of the USP Group's aggregate unused E&P deficit is treated as CFC3's allocable share of USS2's applicable share of the USP Group's aggregate unused E&P deficit, and thus USS2's section 965(a) inclusion amount with respect to CFC3 is reduced to $240x ($300x−$60x).

(C) *Aggregate foreign cash position.* Under section 965(c) and § 1.965-1(c), a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder that includes a section 965(a) inclusion amount in income is allowed a deduction equal to the section 965(c) deduction amount. The section 965(c) deduction amount is computed by taking into account the aggregate foreign cash position of the section 958(a) U.S. shareholder. Under § 1.965-1(f)(8)(i), the aggregate foreign cash position of USS1 is $100x, and the aggregate foreign cash position of USS2 is $50x.

(D) *Section 965(c) deduction amount.* The section 965(c) deduction amount of USS1 is $102x, which is equal to (i) USS1's 8 percent rate equivalent percentage (77.1428571%) of its 8 percent rate amount for USS1's 2017 year ($60x ($160x−$100x)), plus USS1's 15.5 percent rate equivalent percentage (55.7142857%) of its 15.5 percent rate amount for USS1's 2017 year ($100x). The section 965(c) deduction amount of USS2 is $174.43x, which is equal to (i) USS2's 8 percent rate equivalent percentage (77.1428571%) of its 8 percent rate amount for USS2's 2017 year ($190x ($240x−$50x)), plus USS2's 15.5 percent rate equivalent percentage (55.7142857%) of its 15.5 percent rate amount for USS2's 2017 year ($50x). Because USS3 has no section 965(a) inclusion amount, it has no section 965(c) deduction amount and therefore is not allowed a section 965(c) deduction.

Example 2—(2) *Application to members of a consolidated group*—(i) *Facts.* The facts are the same as in paragraph (g)(1)(i) of this section (the facts in *Example 1*), except that the USP Group has elected to file a consolidated return.

(ii) *Analysis*—(A) *Section 965(a) inclusion amount*—(*1*) *Single section 958(a) U.S. shareholder treatment.* Because each of USS1, USS2, and USS3 is a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder of a specified foreign corporation and is a member of a consolidated group, paragraph (e)(1) of this section applies to treat USS1, USS2, and USS3 as a single section 958(a) U.S. shareholder for purposes of section 965(b) and § 1.965-1(b)(2).

(*2*) *Determination of inclusion amount.* The single section 958(a) U.S. shareholder composed of USS1, USS2, and USS3 is a section 958(a) U.S. shareholder with respect to CFC1, CFC2, CFC3, and CFC4. Under § 1.965-1(b)(2), in determining USS1's section 965(a) inclusion amount, the single section 958(a) U.S. shareholder decreases its pro rata share of the U.S. dollar amount of the section 965(a) earnings amount of CFC1 by CFC1's allocable share of the aggregate foreign E&P deficit of the single section 958(a) U.S. shareholder. CFC1's allocable share of the aggregate foreign E&P deficit is $333.33x, which is the product of the aggregate foreign E&P deficit of the single section 958(a) U.S. shareholder ($500x ($400x + $100x)) and .67, which is the ratio determined by dividing its pro rata share of the section 965(a) earnings amount of CFC1 ($600x) by the amount described in § 1.965-1(f)(9)(ii) with respect to the single section 958(a) U.S. shareholder ($900x ($600x + $300x)). Therefore, USS1's section 965(a) inclusion amount with respect to CFC1 is $266.67 (its pro rata share of the section 965(a) earnings amount of CFC1 ($600) less CFC1's allocable share of the aggregate foreign E&P deficit of the single section 958(a) U.S. shareholder ($333.33x)). Similarly, under § 1.965-1(b)(2), in determining the section 965(a) inclusion amount of USS2, the single section 958(a) U.S. shareholder decreases its pro rata share of the U.S. dollar amount of the section 965(a) earnings amount of CFC3 by CFC3's allocable share of the aggregate foreign E&P deficit of the single section 958(a) U.S. shareholder. CFC3's allocable share of the aggregate foreign E&P deficit is $166.67x, which is the product of the aggregate foreign E&P deficit of the single section 958(a) U.S. shareholder ($500x) and .33, which is the ratio determined by dividing its pro rata share of the section 965(a) earnings amount of CFC3 ($300x) by the amount described in § 1.965-1(f)(9)(ii) with respect to the single section 958(a) U.S. shareholder ($900x ($600x + $300x)). Therefore, USS2's section 965(a) inclusion amount with respect to CFC3 is $133.33x (its pro rata share of the section 965(a) earnings amount of CFC3 ($300x) less CFC3's allocable share of the aggregate foreign E&P deficit of the single section 958(a) U.S. shareholder ($166.67x)).

(B) *Consolidated group aggregate foreign cash position.* Because USS1 and USS2 are members of a consolidated group, the aggregate foreign cash position of each of USS1 and USS2 is determined under paragraph (e)(3) of this section. Under paragraph (e)(3) of this section, the aggregate foreign cash position of each of USS1 and USS2 is equal to the aggregate section 965(a) inclusion amount of USS1 and USS2, respectively, multiplied by the group cash ratio of the USP Group, as determined pursuant to paragraph (f)(8) of this section. The group cash ratio of the USP Group is .50, which is the ratio of the USP Group's consolidated group aggregate foreign cash position ($200x ($50x + $100x + $50x)) and the sum of the aggregate section 965(a) inclusion amounts of all members of the USP Group ($400x ($266.67x + $133.33x)). Therefore, under paragraph (e)(3) of this section, the aggregate foreign cash positions of USS1 and USS2 are, respectively, $133.34x ($266.67x × ($200x/$400x)) and $66.67 ($133.33x × ($200x/400x)).

(C) *Section 965(c) deduction amount.* The section 965(c) deduction amount of USS1 is $177.14x, which is equal to (i) USS1's 8 percent rate equivalent percentage (77.1428571%) of its 8 percent rate amount for USS1's 2017 year ($133.33x ($266.67x−$133.34x)), plus USS1's 15.5 percent rate equivalent percentage (55.7142857%) of its 15.5 percent rate amount for USS1's 2017 year ($133.34x). The section 965(c) deduction amount of USS2 is $88.56x, which is equal to (i) USS2's 8 percent rate equivalent percentage (77.1428571%) of its 8 percent rate amount for USS2's 2017 year ($66.66x ($133.33x−$66.67x)), plus USS2's 15.5 percent rate equivalent percentage (55.7142857%) of its 15.5 percent rate amount for USS2's 2017 year ($66.67x). Because USS3 has no section 965(a) inclusion amount, it has no section 965(c) deduction amount and therefore is not allowed a section 965(c) deduction.

[T.D. 9846, 84 FR 1875, Feb. 5, 2019, as amended by T.D. 9846, 84 FR 14261, Apr. 10, 2019]