##### § 1.953-1 Income from insurance of United States risks. #####

(a) *In general.* The subpart F income of a controlled foreign corporation for any taxable year includes its income derived from the insurance of United States risks for such taxable year. See section 952(a)(1). A controlled foreign corporation shall have income derived from the insurance of United States risks for such purpose of it has taxable income, as determined under § 1.953-4 or § 1.953-5, which is attributable to the reinsuring or the issuing of any insurance or annuity contract in connection with United States risks, as defined in § 1.953-2 or § 1.953-3, and if it satisfies the 5-percent minimum premium requirement prescribed in paragraph (b) of this section. It is immaterial for purposes of this section whether the person insured or the beneficiary of any insurance, annuity, or reinsurance contract is, as to such corporation, a related person or a United States shareholder. For definition of the term “controlled foreign corporation” for purposes of taking into account income derived from the insurance of United States risks under section 953, see section 957 (a) and (b) and §§ 1.957-1 and 1.957-2.

(b) *5-percent minimum premium requirement.* A controlled foreign corporation shall not have income derived from the insurance of United States risks for purposes of this section unless the premiums received by such corporation during the taxable year which are attributable to the reinsuring and the issuing of insurance and annuity contracts in connection with the United States risks exceed 5 percent of the total premiums which are received by such corporation during such taxable year and which are attributable to the reinsuring and the issuing of insurance and annuity contracts in connection with all risks.

(c) *General definitions.* For purposes of §§ 1.953-1 to 1.953-6, inclusive—

(1) *Reinsurance, etc.* The terms “reinsurance”, “insurance”, and “annuity contract” have the same meaning which they have for purposes of applying section 809(c)(1) or section 832(b)(4), as the case may be.

(2) *Premiums.* The term “premiums” means the items taken into account for the taxable year under section 809(c)(1), or the amount computed for the taxable year under section 832(b)(4) without the application of subparagraph (B) thereof, as the case may be; except that, for purposes of determining the amount of premiums received in applying paragraph (b) of this section or paragraph (a) of § 1.953-3, advance premiums and deposits shall not be taken into account.

(3) *Insurance company.* The term “insurance company” has the same meaning which it has for purposes of applying section 801(a), determined by applying the principles of paragraph (a) of § 1.801-3.

(4) *Related person.* The term “related person”, when used with respect to a controlled foreign corporation, shall have the meaning assigned to it by paragraph (e) of § 1.954-1.

(5) *Policy period.* With respect to any insurance or annuity contract under which a corporation is potentially liable at any time during its taxable year, the term “policy period” means with respect to such year each period of coverage under the contract if such period begins or ends with or within the taxable year, except that, if such period of coverage is more than one year, such term means such of the following periods as are applicable, each one of which is a policy period with respect to the taxable year:

(i) The one-year period which begins with the effective date of the contract and begins or ends with or within the taxable year,

(ii) The one-year period which begins with an anniversary of the contract and begins or ends with or within the taxable year, and

(iii) The period of less than one year if such period begins with an anniversary of the contract, ends with the date on which coverage under the contract terminates, and begins or ends with or within the taxable year.

For such purposes, the effective date of the contract is the date on which coverage under the contract begins, and the anniversary of the contract is the annual return of the effective date. The period of coverage under a contract is the period beginning with the effective date of the contract and ending with the date on which the coverage under the contract expires; except that, if the risk under the contract has been transferred by assumption reinsurance, the period of coverage shall end with the effective date of such transfer or, if the contract is canceled, with the effective date of cancellation. For this purpose, the term “assumption reinsurance” shall have the meaning provided by paragraph (a)(7)(ii) of § 1.809-5. The application of this subparagraph may be illustrated by the following examples:Example 1.Controlled foreign corporation A issues to domestic corporation M an insurance contract which provides coverage for the 21/2 year period beginning on July 1, 1963. Corporation A uses the calendar year as the taxable year. For 1963, the policy period under such contract as to A Corporation is July 1, 1963, to June 30, 1964. For 1964, the policy periods under such contract as to A Corporation are July 1, 1963, to June 30, 1964, and July 1, 1964, to June 30, 1965. For 1965, the policy periods under such contract as to A Corporation are July 1, 1964, to June 30, 1965, and July 1, 1965, to December 31, 1965.Example 2.The facts are the same as in example 1 except that M Corporation cancels the contract on August 31, 1963. For 1963, the policy period under such contract as to A Corporation is July 1, 1963, to August 31, 1963.Example 3.The facts are the same as in example 1 except that on January 15, 1965, A Corporation cedes insurance under the contract to controlled foreign corporation B, which also uses the calendar year as the taxable year. For 1964, the policy periods under such contract as to A Corporation are July 1, 1963, to June 30, 1964, and July 1, 1964, to June 30, 1965. For 1965, the policy periods under such contract as to both A Corporation and B Corporation are July 1, 1964, to June 30, 1965, and July 1, 1965, to December 31, 1965.Example 4.Controlled foreign corporation C, which uses the calendar year as the taxable year, issues to domestic corporation N an insurance contract which covers the marine risks in connection with shipping a machine to Europe. The contract does not specify the dates during which the machine is covered, but provides coverage from the time the machine is delivered alongside a named vessel in Hoboken, New Jersey, until the machine is delivered alongside such vessel in Liverpool, England. Such deliveries in New Jersey and England take place on February 1, and February 28, 1963, respectively. For 1963, the policy period under such contract as to C Corporation is February 1, to February 28, 1963.

(6) *Foreign country.* The term “foreign country” includes, where not otherwise expressly provided, a possession of the United States.

[T.D. 6781, 29 FR 18201, Dec. 23, 1964]