##### § 532.285 Special wage schedules for supervisors of negotiated rate Bureau of Reclamation employees. #####

(a) The Department of the Interior shall establish and issue special wage schedules for wage supervisors of negotiated rate wage employees in the Bureau of Reclamation. These schedules shall be based on annual special wage surveys conducted by the Bureau of Reclamation in each special wage area. Survey jobs representing Bureau of Reclamation positions at up to four levels will be matched to private industry jobs in each special wage area. Special schedule rates for each position will be based on prevailing rates for that particular job in private industry.

(b) Each supervisory job shall be described at one of four levels corresponding to the four supervisory situations described in Factor I and four levels of Subfactor IIIA of the FWS Job Grading Standard for Supervisors. They shall be titled in accordance with regular FWS practices, with the added designation of level I, II, III, or IV. The special survey and wage schedule for a given special wage area includes only those occupations and levels having employees in that area. For each position on the special schedule, there shall be three step rates. Step 2 is the prevailing rate as determined by the survey; step 1 is 96 percent of the prevailing rate; and step 3 is 104 percent of the prevailing rate.

(c) For each special wage area, the Bureau of Reclamation shall designate and appoint a special wage survey committee, including a chairperson and two other members (at least one of whom shall be a supervisor paid from the special wage schedule), and one or more two-person data collection teams (each of which shall include at least one supervisor paid from the special wage schedule). The local wage survey committee shall determine the prevailing rate for each survey job as a weighted average. Survey specifications are as follows for all surveys:

(1) Based on Bureau of Reclamation activities and types of supervisory positions in the special wage area, the Bureau of Reclamation must survey private industry companies, with no minimum employment size requirement for establishments, in the following North American Industry Classification System code subsectors:

|2017 NAICS codes|                 2017 NAICS industry titles                  |
|----------------|-------------------------------------------------------------|
|      211       |                   Oil and gas extraction.                   |
|      212       |                Mining (except oil and gas).                 |
|      213       |               Support activities for mining.                |
|      221       |                         Utilities.                          |
|      333       |                  Machinery manufacturing.                   |
|      334       |       Computer and electronic product manufacturing.        |
|      335       |Electrical equipment, appliance, and component manufacturing.|
|      484       |                    Truck transportation.                    |
|      492       |                  Couriers and messengers.                   |
|      493       |                  Warehousing and storage.                   |
|      515       |               Broadcasting (except Internet).               |
|      517       |                     Telecommunications.                     |
|      562       |         Waste management and remediation services.          |
|      811       |                   Repair and maintenance.                   |

(2) Each local wage survey committee shall compile lists of all companies in the survey area known to have potential job matches. For the first survey, all companies on the list will be surveyed. Subsequently, companies shall be removed from the survey list if they prove not to have job matches, and new companies will be added if they are expected to have job matches. Survey data will be shared with other local wage survey committees when the data from any one company is applicable to more than one special wage area.

(3) For each area, survey job descriptions shall be tailored to correspond to the position of each covered supervisor in that area. They will be described at one of four levels (I, II, III, or IV) corresponding to the definitions of the four supervisory situations described in Factor I and four levels of Subfactor IIIA of the FWS Job Grading Standard for Supervisors. A description of the craft, trade, or labor work supervised will be included in each supervisory survey job description.

(d) Special wage area boundaries shall be identical to the survey areas covered by the special wage surveys. The areas of application in which the special schedules will be paid are generally smaller than the survey areas, reflecting actual Bureau of Reclamation worksites and the often scattered location of surveyable private sector jobs. Special wage schedules shall be established in the following areas:

The Great Plains RegionSpecial Wage Survey Area (Counties)*Montana:* All counties except Lincoln, Sanders,Lake, Flathead, Mineral, Missoula, Powell, Granite, and Ravalli*Wyoming:* All counties except Lincoln, Teton, sublette, Uinta, and Sweetwater*Colorado:* All counties except Moffat, Rio Blanco, Garfield, Mesa, Delta, Montrose, San Miguel, Ouray, Delores, San Juan, Montezuma, La Plata, and Archuleta*North Dakota:* All counties*South Dakota:* All countiesSpecial Wage Area of Application (Counties)*Montana:* Broadwater, Jefferson,Lewis and Clark, Yellowstone, and Bighorn Counties*Wyoming:* All counties except Lincoln, Teton, Sublette, Uinta, and Sweetwater*Colorado:* Boulder, Chaffee, Clear Creek, Eagle, Fremont, Gilpin, Grand, Lake, Larimer, Park, Pitkin, Pueblo, and Summitt*Beginning month of survey:* AugustThe Mid-Pacific RegionSpecial Wage Survey Area (Counties)*California:* Shasta, Sacramento, Butte, San Francisco, Merced, StanislausSpecial Wage Area of Application (Counties)*California:* Shasta, Sacramento, Fresno, Alameda, Tehoma, Tuolumne, Merced*Beginning month of survey:* FebruaryGreen Springs Power Field StationSpecial Wage Survey Area (Counties)*Oregon:* JacksonSpecial Wage Area of Application (Counties)*Oregon:* Jackson*Beginning month of survey:* AprilPacific NW. Region Drill CrewSpecial Wage Survey Area (Counties)*Montana:* Flathead, Missoula*Oregon:* Lane, Bend, Medford, Umatilla, Multnomah*Utah:* Salt Lake*Idaho:* Ada, Canyon, Adams*Washington:* Spokane, Grant, Lincoln, OkanoganSpecial Wage Area of Application (Counties)*Oregon:* Deschutes, Jackson, Umatilla*Montana:* Missoula*Idaho:* Ada*Washington:* Grant, Lincoln, Douglas, Okanogan, Yakima*Beginning month of survey:* AprilSnake River Area Office (Central Snake/Minidoka)Special Wage Survey Area (Counties)*Idaho:* Ada, Caribou, Bingham, BannockSpecial Wage Area of Application (Counties)*Idaho:* Gem, Elmore, Bonneville, Minidoka, Boise, Valley, Power*Beginning month of survey:* AprilHungry Horse Project OfficeSpecial Wage Survey Area (Counties)*Montana:* Flathead, Missoula, Cascade, Sanders, Lake*Idaho:* Bonner*Washington:* Pend OreilleSpecial Wage Area of Application (Counties)*Montana:* Flathead*Beginning month of survey:* MarchGrand Coulee Power Office (Grand Coulee Project Office)Special Wage Survey Area (Counties)*Oregon:* Multnomah*Washington:* Spokane, KingSpecial Wage Area of Application (Counties)*Washington:* Grant, Douglas, Lincoln, Okanogan*Beginning month of survey:* AprilUpper Columbia Area Office (Yakima)Special Wage Survey Area (Counties)*Washington:* King, Yakima*Oregon:* MultnomahSpecial Wage Area of Application (Counties)*Washington:* Yakima*Oregon:* Umatilla*Beginning Month of Survey:* SeptemberColorado River Storage Project AreaSpecial Wage Survey Area (Counties)*Arizona:* Apache, Coconino, Navajo*Colorado:* Moffat, Montrose, Routt, Gunnison, Rio Blanco, Mesa, Garfield, Eagle, Delta, Pitkin, San Miguel, Delores, Montezuma, La Plata, San Juan, Ouray, Archuleta, Hindale, Mineral*Wyoming:* Unita, Sweetwater, Carbon, Albany, Laramie, Goshen, Platte, Niobrara, Converse, Natrona, Fremont, Sublette, Lincoln*Utah:* Beaver, Box Elder, Cache, Carbon, Daggett, Davis, Duchesne, Emery, Garfield, Grand, Iron, Juab, Kane, Millard, Morgan, Piute, Rich, Salt Lake, San Juan, Sanpete, Sevier, Summit, Tooele, Uintah, Utah, Wasatch, Washington, Wayne, WeberSpecial Survey Area of Application (Counties)*Arizona:* Coconino*Colorado:* Montrose, Gunnison, Mesa*Wyoming:* Lincoln*Utah:* Daggett*Beginning month of survey:* MarchElephant Butte AreaSpecial Wage Survey Area (Counties)*New Mexico:* Grant, Hidalgo, Luna, Donña Ana, Otero, Eddy, Lea, Roosevelt, Chaves, Lincoln, Sierra, Socorro, Catron, Cibola, Valencia, Bernalillo, Torrance, Guadalupe, De Baca, Curry, Quay*Texas:* El Paso, Hudspeth, Culberson, Jeff Davis, Presido, Brewster, Pecos, Reeves, Loving, Ward, Winkler*Arizona:* Apache, Greenlee, Graham, CochiseSpecial Wage Area of Application (Counties)*New Mexico:* Sierra*Beginning month of survey:* JuneLower Colorado Dams AreaSpecial Wage Survey Area (Counties)*Nevada:* Clark*California:* Los Angeles*Arizona:* MaricopaSpecial Wage Area of Application (Counties)*Nevada:* Clark*California:* San Bernardino*Arizona:* Mohave*Beginning month of survey:* AugustYuma Projects AreaSpecial Wage Survey Area (Counties)*California:* San Diego*Arizona:* Maricopa, YumaNote:

Bureau of Reclamation may add other survey counties for dredge operator supervisors because of the uniqueness of the occupation and difficulty in finding job matches.)

Special Wage Area of Application (Counties)*Arizona:* Yuma*Beginning month of survey:* November (Maintenance) and April (Dredging)Bureau of Reclamation, Denver, CO, AreaSpecial Wage Survey Area (Counties)*Colorado:* Jefferson, Denver, Adams, Arapahoe, Boulder, LarimerSpecial Wage Survey Area of Application (Counties)*Colorado:* Jefferson*Beginning month of survey:* February

(e) These special schedule positions will be identified by pay plan code XE, grade 00, and the Federal Wage System occupational codes will be used. New employees shall be hired at step 1 of the position. With satisfactory or higher performance, advancement between steps shall be automatic after 52 weeks of service.

(f)(1) In the first year of implementation, all special areas will have full-scale surveys.

(2) Current employees shall be placed in step 2 of the new special schedule, or, if their current rate of pay exceeds the rate for step 2, they shall be placed in step 3. Pay retention shall apply to any employee whose rate of basic pay would otherwise be reduced as a result of placement in these new special wage schedules.

(3) The waiting period for within-grade increases shall begin on the employee's first day under the new special schedule.

[60 FR 5310, Jan. 27, 1995, as amended at 69 FR 7105, Feb. 13, 2004; 71 FR 35375, June 20, 2006; 73 FR 45853, Aug. 7, 2008; 78 FR 58154, Sept. 23, 2013; 84 FR 36814, July 30, 2019]