##### § 325.5 Unmarked inspected product transported under official seal between official establishments for further processing; certificate. #####

(a) Any product which has been inspected and passed may be transported from one official establishment to another for further processing without each article being marked with the official inspection legend, if it is so transported in a railroad car, motortruck, or other means of conveyance which is sealed by a Program employee with an official seal of the Department prescribed in § 312.5(a) of this subchapter. Unless 25 percent or more of the contents of each car or other means of conveyance consists of product not marked with the inspection legend, transportation will not be permitted under this paragraph.

(b) When articles are offered for transportation under paragraph (a) of this section, the initial carrier shall require, and the shipper shall make in duplicate and deliver to the carrier, one copy of a certificate in the following form: 1

1 For convenience in filing, it is requested that these certificates be made on paper 51/2 × 8 inches in size.

Date \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 19\_\_\_\_Name of carrier Establishment number of consignor Point of shipment Establishment number of consignee Destination Car number and initials License number of other means of conveyance

I hereby certify that the following described product has been U.S. inspected and passed by the U.S. Department of Agriculture; and that it is not marked “U.S. inspected and passed,” but has been placed in the means of conveyance specified above under the supervision of an employee of the Meat and Poultry Inspection Programs of said Department, and the means of conveyance has been sealed by him with official U.S. Government seals Nos. \_\_\_\_ and \_\_\_\_.

Kind of product Amount and weight(Signature of shipper) (Address of shipper)When paunches are offered for transportation under this paragraph, the initial carrier shall require, and the shipper shall make in duplicate and deliver to the carrier, one copy of a certificate in duplicate in the form set out in § 325.5(b), appropriately modified. Certificates in this form or copies thereof need not be forwarded to any official or office of the Department, but the original of the certificate shall be retained by the carrier and a copy shall be retained by the shipper in accordance with part 320 of this subchapter. If the shipper is also the carrier, he shall nevertheless execute and retain the certificate in accordance with part 320 of this subchapter.

(c) The signature of the shipper or his agent shall be written in full. This certificate may be stamped upon or incorporated in any form ordinarily used in the transportation of product. Certificates in this form or copies thereof need not be forwarded to any official or office of the Department. The original of the certificate required by this section shall be retained by the carrier and a copy shall be retained by the shipper in accordance with part 320 of this subchapter. If the shipper is also the carrier, he shall nevertheless execute and retain the certificate in accordance with part 320 of this subchapter.