##### ยง 2005.1 Rules for determining if an individual is the subject of a record. #####

(a) Individuals desiring to know if a specific system of records maintained by STR contains a record pertaining to them should address their inquiries to the Administrative Officer, Office of the Special Representative for Trade Negotiations, Washington, DC 20506. The written inquiry should contain a specific reference to the system of records maintained by the STR listed in the STR Notice of Systems of Records or it should describe the type of record in sufficient detail to reasonably identify the system of records. Notice of STR systems of records subject to the Privacy Act will be published in the Federal Register and copies of the notices will be available upon request to the Administrative Officer when so published. A compilation of such notices will also be made and published by the Office of the Federal Register, in accordance with section 5 U.S.C. 552a(f).

(b) At a minimum, the request should also contain sufficient identifying information to allow STR to determine if there is a record pertaining to the individual making the request in a particular system of records. In instances when the identification is insufficient to insure disclosure to the individual to whom the information pertains in view of the sensitivity of the information, STR reserves the right to solicit from the person requesting access to a record additional identifying information.

(c) Ordinarily the person requesting will be informed whether the named system of records contains a record pertaining to such person within 10 days of such a request (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal Federal holidays). Such a response will also contain or reference the procedures which must be followed by the individual making the request in order to gain access to the record.

(d) Whenever a response cannot be made within the 10 days, the Administrative Officer will inform the person making the request the reasons for the delay and the date of which a response may be anticipated.