##### § 1.987-10 Transition rules. #####

(a) *Scope.* These transition rules shall apply to any taxpayer that is an owner of a section 987 QBU pursuant to § 1.987-1(b)(4) on the transition date (as defined in § 1.987-11(c)). Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, a taxpayer to which this section applies must transition from the method previously used to comply with section 987 (the “prior section 987 method”) to the method prescribed by these regulations pursuant to the fresh start transition method set forth in paragraph (b) of this section.

(b) *Fresh start transition method*—(1) *In general.* Pursuant to the fresh start transition method, and solely for purposes of this section, all section 987 QBUs of a taxpayer, other than section 987 QBUs subject to paragraph (c) of this section, are deemed to terminate on the day before the transition date. No section 987 gain or loss is determined or recognized as a result of the deemed termination. The owner of a section 987 QBU that is deemed to terminate under this section is treated as having transferred all of the assets and liabilities attributable to such QBU to a new section 987 QBU on the transition date. This deemed transfer of assets and liabilities is taken into account only for purposes of transitioning to these regulations under section 987 and shall not be taken into account in determining the amounts transferred from the owner to the section 987 QBU during the taxable year for purposes of § 1.987-5(c)(1)(ii).

(2) *Application of § 1.987-4.* For purposes of applying § 1.987-4 with respect to a section 987 QBU described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section for the taxable year beginning on the transition date, the amount of assets and liabilities deemed transferred from the owner to the section 987 QBU on the transition date pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall be determined by translating such assets and liabilities (without regard to whether the asset or liability is a marked item or a historic item) at the historic rate as determined under paragraph (b)(3) of this section.

(3) *Determination of historic rate.* For purposes of applying these regulations with respect to a section 987 QBU described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section for taxable years beginning on or after the transition date, the historic rate (as defined in § 1.987-1(c)(3)) for an asset or liability deemed transferred under paragraph (b)(1) of this section from an owner to the section 987 QBU on the transition date shall be the historic rate under § 1.987-1(c)(3) determined by reference to the date the assets were acquired or liabilities entered into or assumed by the section 987 QBU deemed terminated (that is, without regard to the deemed termination or transfer described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section). However, if the owner is not able to determine reliably the historic rate for a particular asset or liability, then the historic rate must be determined based on reasonable assumptions (for example, assumptions about turnover and aging of accounts receivable), consistently applied.

(4) *Example.* The provisions of this paragraph (b) are illustrated by the following example. Exchange rate assumptions used in the example are selected for the purpose of illustrating the principles of this section, and no inference is intended by their use. Additionally, the effect of depreciation is not taken into account for purposes of this example.

Example.(i) U.S. Corp is a domestic corporation with the dollar as its functional currency. U.S. Corp owns Business A, a U.K. branch with the pound as its functional currency. Business A was formed on January 1, year 1. U.S. Corp uses the method prescribed in the 1991 proposed section 987 regulations to determine the section 987 gain or loss of Business A. U.S. Corp contributed £6,000 to Business A on January 1, year 1. On the same day, Business A bought a truck for £4,000 and a computer for £1,000. Business A had profits determined under § 1.987-1(b)(1)(i) through (iii) of the 1991 proposed section 987 regulations of £250 in each of year 1, year 2, and year 3, and the yearly average exchange rate was used in each of those years to translate Business A's profits under the 1991 proposed section 987 regulations. The yearly average exchange rate was £1 = $1.10 in year 1, £1 = $1.20 in year 2, and £1 = $1.30 in year 3. Business A incurred a £50 loss in each of year 4 and year 5. Business A made no remittances to U.S. Corp in any year.

(ii) On January 1, year 5, Business A transitions to the method provided in these regulations pursuant to the fresh start transition method described in paragraph (b) of this section. Pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section, Business A is deemed to terminate on December 31, year 4. However, no section 987 gain or loss is determined or recognized as a result of the deemed termination. Pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section, for purposes of applying § 1.987-4 with respect to Business A for year 5, the amount of assets and liabilities transferred from U.S. Corp to Business A on the transition date shall be determined by translating all of Business A's assets at the historic rates for those assets as determined under § 1.987-1(c)(3) and paragraph (b)(3) of this section. Because U.S. Corp is not able to determine reliably the historic rate for the pound currency it is deemed to transfer to Business A, U.S. Corp determines the historic rate for these pounds based on a last-in, first-out cash flow assumption. Thus, it is assumed that the £50 loss in each of year 4 and year 5 first reduces the £250 earned in year 3. Accordingly, for purposes of determining the amount of assets and liabilities deemed transferred from U.S. Corp to Business A on January 1, year 5, U.S. Corp translates Business A's assets and liabilities as follows:

|     Assets      |Amount in £|           Translation rate            |Amount in $|
|-----------------|-----------|---------------------------------------|-----------|
|     Pounds      |   1,000   |£1 = $1.10 (yearly average rate—year 1)|   1,100   |
|     Pounds      |    250    |£1 = $1.10 (yearly average rate—year 1)|    275    |
|     Pounds      |    250    |£1 = $1.20 (yearly average rate—year 2)|    300    |
|     Pounds      |    150    |£1 = $1.30 (yearly average rate—year 3)|    195    |
|      Truck      |   4,000   |£1 = $1.10 (yearly average rate—year 1)|   4,400   |
|    Computer     |   1,000   |£1 = $1.10 (yearly average rate—year 1)|   1,100   |
|  Total assets   |           |                                       |   7,370   |
|  Liabilities:   |           |                                       |           |
|Total liabilities|           |                                       |     0     |

(c) *Transition of section 987 QBUs that applied the method set forth in the 2006 proposed section 987 regulations*—(1) *In general.* If, with respect to a particular section 987 QBU, a taxpayer's prior section 987 method was based on a reasonable application of the method described in the 2006 proposed section 987 regulations (REG-208270-86, 71 FR 52876), then the taxpayer shall apply these regulations under section 987 with respect to such section 987 QBU without regard to paragraph (b) of this section.

(2) *Application of § 1.987-4.* For purposes of applying § 1.987-4 with respect to a section 987 QBU described in paragraph (c)(1) for the taxable year beginning on the transition date, the owner functional currency net value of the section 987 QBU on the last day of the preceding taxable year under § 1.987-4(d)(1)(B) shall be the amount that was determined under § 1.987-4(d)(1)(A) of the 2006 proposed section 987 regulations for the preceding taxable year. Additionally, for purposes of applying § 1.987-4 with respect to a section 987 QBU described in paragraph (c)(1) for all taxable years that end after the transition date, the section 987 QBU's net unrecognized section 987 gain or loss for all prior taxable years under § 1.987-4(c) shall take into account the aggregate of the amounts determined under § 1.987-4(d) of the 2006 proposed section 987 regulations for taxable years for which the taxpayer applied the 2006 proposed section 987 regulations, reduced by the amounts taken into account under § 1.987-5 of the 2006 proposed section 987 regulations upon a remittance for all such prior taxable years.

(3) *Use of prior historic rate.* For purposes of applying these regulations under section 987 with respect to historic items (as defined in § 1.987-1(e)), other than inventory, that are reflected on the balance sheet of the section 987 QBU on the transition date, a taxpayer may use the same historic exchange rates as were used under the taxpayer's application of the 2006 proposed section 987 regulations in place of the historic rates that otherwise would be determined under § 1.987-1(c)(3), provided that, for all taxable years that end after the transition date, the taxpayer does so with respect to all historic items (other than inventory) that are reflected on the balance sheet of the section 987 QBU on the transition date.

(4) *Example.* The provisions of this paragraph (c) are illustrated by the following example. Exchange rate assumptions used in the example are selected for the purpose of illustrating the principles of this section, and no inference is intended by their use. Additionally, the effect of depreciation is not taken into account for purposes of this example.

Example.(i) U.S. Corp is a domestic corporation with the dollar as its functional currency. U.S. Corp owns Business A, a U.K. branch with the pound as its functional currency. Business A was formed on January 1, year 1. U.S. Corp uses a reasonable application of the method described in the 2006 proposed section 987 regulations to determine the section 987 gain or loss of Business A. On January 1, year 5, Business A transitions to the method provided in these regulations pursuant to the method described in this paragraph (c). Business A's opening balance sheet on January 1, year 5, includes pounds, a truck acquired in year 2, inventory accounted for under the FIFO method, and no liabilities. These assets remain on the balance sheet on December 31, year 5.

(ii) Pursuant to paragraph (c)(3) of this section, U.S. Corp chooses to use the same historic exchange rates as were used under its application of the 2006 proposed regulations in place of the historic rates prescribed under § 1.987-1(c)(3) for purposes of applying these regulations with respect to historic items (other than inventory) held on the transition date.

(iii) The pounds are marked items under § 1.987-1(d). Because the pounds are marked items, for purposes of determining the owner functional currency net value of Business A on the last day of year 5 pursuant to § 1.987-4(e), the pounds are translated into dollars using the spot rate (as defined in § 1.987-1(c)(1)) applicable to the last day of year 5.

(iv) The truck held on Business A's balance sheet on January 1, year 5, is a historic item under § 1.987-1(e). For purposes of determining the owner functional currency net value of Business A on the last day of year 5 pursuant to § 1.987-4(e), the basis of the truck is translated into dollars using the spot rate on the day the truck was acquired in year 2, as determined under § 1.987-1(c)(3) of the 2006 proposed section 987 regulations. If U.S. Corp had not chosen pursuant to paragraph (c)(3) of this section to use the same historic exchange rates as were used under its application of the 2006 proposed regulations, the basis of the truck would have been translated into dollars using the historic rate described in § 1.987-1(c)(3), which is the yearly average exchange rate for year 5.

(v) The inventory held on Business A's balance sheet on January 1, year 5, is a historic item under § 1.987-1(e). For purposes of determining the owner functional currency net value of Business A on the last day of year 5 pursuant to § 1.987-4(e), the FIFO cost basis of the inventory is translated into dollars using the historic rate, which pursuant to § 1.987-1(c)(3)(i)(B) is the yearly average exchange rate for year 5.

(vi) Pursuant to paragraph (c)(3) of this section, for purposes of applying § 1.987-4 with respect to Business A for year 5, the owner functional currency net value of Business A on the last day of year 4 under § 1.987-4(d)(1)(B) is the amount that was determined under § 1.987-4(d)(1)(A) of the 2006 proposed section 987 regulations for year 4. Additionally, Business A's net unrecognized section 987 gain or loss for all prior years under § 1.987-4(c) shall take into account the aggregate of the amounts determined under § 1.987-4(d) of the 2006 proposed section 987 regulations for year 1 through year 4, reduced by the amounts taken into account under § 1.987-5 of the 2006 proposed section 987 regulations upon a remittance for all such prior taxable years.

(d) *Adjustments to avoid double counting.* If a difference between the treatment of any item under these regulations and the treatment of the item under the taxpayer's prior section 987 method would result in income, gain, deduction or loss being taken into account more than once, then the net unrecognized section 987 gain or loss of the section 987 QBU, as determined under § 1.987-4(b) for the first taxable year for which these regulations apply, shall be adjusted to account for the difference.

(e) *Reporting*—(1) *In general.* Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (e), the taxpayer must attach a statement titled “Section 987 Transition Information” to its timely filed return for the first taxable year to which these regulations under section 987 apply providing the following information:

(i) A description of each section 987 QBU to which these rules apply, the section 987 QBU's owner, the section 987 QBU's principal place of business, and a description of the prior section 987 method used by the taxpayer to determine section 987 gain or loss with respect to the section 987 QBU.

(ii) Any assumptions used by the taxpayer for determining the exchange rates used to translate the amount of assets and liabilities transferred to the section 987 QBU on the transition date, as provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.

(iii) With respect to each section 987 QBU subject to paragraph (c) of this section, a statement regarding whether historic items (as defined in § 1.987-1(c)(3)) are translated pursuant to paragraph (c)(2) of this section at the same historic rates as were used under the taxpayer's application of the 2006 proposed regulations or at the historic rates determined under § 1.987-1(c)(3).

(iv) With respect to each section 987 QBU with respect to which an adjustment is made pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section, a description of the adjustment and the basis for the computation of such adjustments.

(2) *Attachments not required where information is reported on a form.* Paragraph (e) of this section shall not apply to the extent the information described in such paragraph is required to be reported on a form published by the Commissioner.

[T.D. 9794, 81 FR 88845, Dec. 8, 2016]