##### § 1.987-6 Character and source of section 987 gain or loss. #####

(a) *Ordinary income or loss.* Section 987 gain or loss is ordinary income or loss for Federal income tax purposes.

(b) *Character and source of section 987 gain or loss* - (1) *In general.* With respect to each section 987 QBU, the owner must determine the character and source of section 987 gain or loss in the year of a remittance under the rules of this paragraph (b) for all purposes of the Internal Revenue Code, including sections 904(d), 907, and 954.

(2) *Method required to characterize and source section 987 gain or loss.* The owner must use the asset method set forth in § 1.861-9T(g) to characterize and source section 987 gain or loss. In applying the asset method, the owner must take into account only the assets of the section 987 QBU and must consistently determine the value of the assets on the basis of either the tax book value or the fair market value of the assets. The modified gross income method described in § 1.861-9T(j) cannot be used.

(3) *Coordination with section 954.* Solely for purposes of determining the excess of foreign currency gains over foreign currency losses characterized as foreign personal holding company income under section 954(c)(1)(D), section 987 gain or loss that is characterized pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section by reference to assets that give rise to subpart F income shall be treated as foreign currency gain or foreign currency loss attributable to section 988 transactions not directly related to the business needs of the controlled foreign corporation.

(4) [Reserved]. For further guidance, see § 1.987-6T(b)(4).

(c) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the application of this section.

Example 1.CFC is a controlled foreign corporation as defined in section 957 with the Swiss franc (Sf) as its functional currency. CFC is the owner of Business A, a section 987 QBU that has the euro as its functional currency. For the year 2021, CFC recognizes section 987 gain of Sf10,000 under § 1.987-5. Applying the rules of this section, Business A has average total assets of Sf1,000,000, which generate income as follows: Sf750,000 of assets that generate foreign source general limitation income under section 904(d)(1)(A), none of which is subpart F income under section 952; and Sf250,000 of assets that generate foreign source passive income under section 904(d)(1)(B), all of which is subpart F income. Under paragraph (b) of this section, Sf7,500 (Sf750,000/Sf1,000,000 × Sf10,000) of the section 987 gain will be characterized as foreign source general limitation income that is not subpart F income under section 952, and Sf2,500 (Sf250,000/Sf1,000,000 × Sf10,000) will be characterized as foreign source passive income that is characterized as foreign personal holding company income under section 954(c)(1)(D). All of the section 987 gain is treated as ordinary income.Example 2.The facts are the same as in *Example 1* except that: (a) CFC recognizes section 987 loss of Sf40,000, Sf10,000 of which is characterized under paragraph (b) of this section by reference to assets that give rise to subpart F income; and (b) CFC otherwise has Sf12,000 of net foreign currency gain determined under § 1.954-2(g) that is taken into account in determining the excess of foreign currency gain over foreign currency losses characterized as foreign personal holding company income under section 954(c)(1)(D). Under paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the Sf10,000 section 987 loss characterized by reference to assets that give rise to subpart F income is treated as foreign currency loss attributable to section 988 transactions not directly related to the business needs of the controlled foreign corporation for purposes of determining the excess of foreign currency gains over foreign currency losses characterized as foreign personal holding company income under section 954(c)(1)(D). Accordingly, CFC will aggregate the Sf10,000 section 987 loss with the Sf12,000 net foreign currency gain and will have Sf2,000 of net foreign currency gain characterized as foreign personal holding company income under section 954(c)(1)(D).[T.D. 9794, 81 FR 88845, Dec. 8, 2016, as amended by T.D. 9795, 81 FR 88874, Dec. 8, 2016]