##### § 1.987-2T Attribution of items to eligible QBUs; definition of a transfer and related rules (temporary). #####

(a) through (c)(8) [Reserved]. For further guidance, see § 1.987-2(a) through (c)(8).

(9) *Certain disregarded transactions not treated as transfers* - (i) *Combinations of section 987 QBUs.* The combination of two or more separate section 987 QBUs (combining QBUs) that are directly owned by the same owner, or that are indirectly owned by the same partner through a single section 987 aggregate partnership, into one section 987 QBU (combined QBU) does not give rise to a transfer of any combining QBU's assets or liabilities to the owner under § 1.987-2(c). In addition, transactions between the combining QBUs occurring in the taxable year of the combination do not result in a transfer of the combining QBUs' assets or liabilities to the owner under § 1.987-2(c). For this purpose, a combination occurs when the assets and liabilities that are properly reflected on the books and records of two or more combining QBUs begin to be properly reflected on the books and records of a combined QBU and the separate existence of the combining QBUs ceases. A combination may result from any transaction or series of transactions in which the combining QBUs become a combined QBU. For rules regarding the determination of net unrecognized section 987 gain or loss of a combined QBU, see § 1.987-4T(f)(1).

(ii) *Change in functional currency from a combination.* If, following a combination of section 987 QBUs described in paragraph (c)(9)(i) of this section, the combined section 987 QBU has a different functional currency than one or more of the combining section 987 QBUs, any such combining section 987 QBU is treated as changing its functional currency and the owner of the combined section 987 QBU must comply with the regulations under section 985 regarding the change in functional currency. See §§ 1.985-1(c)(6) and 1.985-5.

(iii) *Separation of section 987 QBUs.* The separation of a section 987 QBU (separating QBU) into two or more section 987 QBUs (separated QBUs) that, after the separation, are directly owned by the same owner, or that are indirectly owned by the same partner through a single section 987 aggregate partnership, does not give rise to a transfer of the separating QBU's assets or liabilities to the owner under § 1.987-2(c). Additionally, transactions that occurred between the separating QBUs in the taxable year of the separation prior to the completion of the separation do not give rise to transfers for purposes of section 987. For this purpose, a separation occurs when the assets and liabilities that are properly reflected on the books and records of a separating QBU begin to be properly reflected on the books and records of two or more separated QBUs. A separation may result from any transaction or series of transactions in which a separating QBU becomes two or more separated QBUs. A separation may also result when a section 987 QBU that is subject to a grouping election under § 1.987-1(b)(2)(ii)(A) changes its functional currency. For rules regarding the determination of net unrecognized section 987 gain or loss of a separated QBU, see § 1.987-4T(f)(2).

(c)(10) through (d) [Reserved]. For further guidance see § 1.987-2(c)(10) through (d).

(e) *Effective/applicability date.* This section applies to taxable years beginning on or after one year after the first day of the first taxable year following December 7, 2016. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, if a taxpayer makes an election under § 1.987-11(b), then this section applies to taxable years to which §§ 1.987-1 through 1.987-10 apply as a result of such election.

(f) *Expiration date.* The applicability of this section expires on December 6, 2019.

[T.D. 9795, 81 FR 88870, Dec. 8, 2016]