##### § 1.453-5 Sale of real property treated on installment method. #####

(a) *In general.* In any transaction described in paragraph (b)(1) of § 1.453-4, that is, sales of real property in which there are no payments during the year of sale or the payments in that year do not exceed 30 percent of the selling price, the vendor may return as income from each such transaction in any taxable year that proportion of the installment payments actually received in that year which the gross profit (as described in paragraph (b) of § 1.453-1) realized or to be realized when the property is paid for bears to the total contract price. In any case, the sale of each lot or parcel of a subdivided tract must be treated as a separate transaction and gain or loss computed accordingly. (See paragraph (a) of § 1.61-6.)

(b) *Defaults and repossessions* - (1) *Effective date.* This paragraph shall apply only with respect to taxable years beginning before September 3, 1964, in respect of which an election has not been properly made to have the provisions of section 1038 apply. For rules applicable to taxable years beginning after September 2, 1964, and for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1957, to which such an election applies, see section 1038, and §§ 1.1038-1 through 1.1038-3.

(2) *Gain or loss on reacquisition of property.* If the purchaser of real property on the installment plan defaults in any of his payments, and the vendor returning income on the installment method reacquires the property sold, whether title thereto had been retained by the vendor or transferred to the purchaser, gain or loss for the year in which the reacquisition occurs is to be computed upon any installment obligations of the purchaser which are satisfied or discharged upon the reacquisition or are applied by the vendor to the purchase or bid price of the property. Such gain or loss is to be measured by the difference between the fair market value at the date of reacquisition of the property reacquired (including the fair market value of any fixed improvements placed on the property by the purchaser) and the basis in the hands of the vendor of the obligations of the purchaser which are so satisfied, discharged, or applied, with proper adjustment for any other amounts realized or costs incurred in connection with the reacquisition.

(3) *Fair market value of reacquired property.* If the property reacquired is bid in by the vendor at a foreclosure sale, the fair market value of the property shall be presumed to be the purchase or bid price thereof in the absence of clear and convincing proof to the contrary.

(4) *Basis of obligations.* The basis in the hands of the vendor of the obligations of the purchaser satisfied, discharged, or applied upon the reacquisition of the property will be the excess of the face value of such obligations over an amount equal to the income which would be returnable were the obligations paid in full. For definition of the basis of an installment obligation, see section 453(d)(2) and paragraph (b)(2) of § 1.453-9.

(5) *Bad debt deduction.* No deduction for a bad debt shall in any case be taken on account of any portion of the obligations of the purchaser which are treated by the vendor as not having been satisfied, discharged, or applied upon the reacquisition of the property, unless it is clearly shown that after the property was reacquired the purchaser remained liable for such portion; and in no event shall the amount of the deduction exceed the basis in the hands of the vendor of the portion of the obligations with respect to which the purchaser remained liable after the reacquisition. See section 166 and the regulations thereunder.

(6) *Basis of reacquired property.* If the property reacquired is subsequently sold, the basis for determining gain or loss is the fair market value of the property at the date of reacquisition, including the fair market value of any fixed improvements placed on the property by the purchaser.

[T.D. 6500, 25 FR 11716, Nov. 26, 1960, as amended by T.D. 6916, 32 FR 5923, Apr. 13, 1967]