##### ยง 266.602 Mortgage insurance premium: Insured advances. #####

(a) *Initial premium.* For projects involving insured advances, on the date of the initial closing, the HFA shall pay to the Commissioner an initial premium equal to the prescribed percentage, in the sliding scale chart that is shown in ยง 266.604(b), of the face amount of the mortgage.

(b) *Interim premium.* On each anniversary of the initial closing, the HFA shall pay an interim mortgage insurance premium equal to the prescribed percentage of the face amount of the mortgage. The HFA shall continue to pay the interim mortgage insurance premiums until the date of the first principal payment.

(c) *Premium payable with first payment of principal.* On the date of the first principal payment, the HFA shall pay a mortgage insurance premium equal to the prescribed percentage of the average outstanding principal obligation of the mortgage for the year following the date of the first principal payment. The HFA shall adjust this payment by deducting an amount equal to the portion of the last premium paid that is attributable to the months after the date of the first payment to principal. Any partial month is to be counted as a whole month. The HFA shall remit the net adjusted mortgage premium to the Commissioner and refund the amount of the adjustment (overpayment) to the mortgagor.

(d) *Subsequent premiums.* Until one of the conditions is met under ยง 266.606(a), the HFA on each anniversary of the date of the first principal payment shall pay to the Commissioner an annual mortgage insurance premium equal to the prescribed percentage of the average outstanding principal obligation of the mortgage, without taking into account delinquent payments, prepayments, or a partial claim payment under ยง 266.630, for the year following the date on which the premium becomes payable.