##### § 93.406 Diagnostic tests. #####

Link to an amendment published at 85 FR 57952, Sept. 17, 2020.

(a) *Tuberculosis and brucellosis tests of cattle.* Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section and in §§ 93.418, 93.427(d), and 93.432, all cattle imported from any part of the world, except for immediate slaughter, must be accompanied by a certificate of a salaried veterinary officer of the national government of the region of origin, or if exported from Mexico, must be accompanied either by such a certificate or by a certificate issued by a veterinarian accredited by the National Government of Mexico and endorsed by a full-time salaried veterinary officer of the National Government of Mexico, thereby representing that the veterinarian issuing the certificate was authorized to do so, stating that:

(1) *Brucellosis.* The cattle have been tested for brucellosis with negative results within 30 days prior to the date of their exportation to the United States; Provided, that the brucellosis test will not be required for steers, spayed heifers, or any cattle less than 6 months old. The certificate must give the dates and places of testing, names of the consignor and consignee, and a description of the cattle, with breed, ages, and markings; and

(2) *Tuberculosis.* (i) For steers and spayed heifers, the cattle originated from a herd of origin that tested negative to a whole herd test for tuberculosis within 1 year prior to the date of exportation to the United States, and the animals each tested negative to an additional official tuberculin test conducted within 60 days prior to the date of exportation to the United States, and any individual cattle that had been added to the herd tested negative to any individual tests for tuberculosis required by the Administrator; or

(ii) For sexually intact cattle that are from an accredited herd, the herd was certified as an accredited herd for tuberculosis within 1 year prior to the date of exportation to the United States; or

(iii) For sexually intact cattle that are not from an accredited herd, the cattle originated from a herd of origin that tested negative to a whole herd test for tuberculosis within 1 year prior to the date of exportation to the United States, and the animals each tested negative to one additional official tuberculin test conducted no more than 6 months and no less than 60 days prior to the date of exportation to the United States, and any individual cattle that had been added to the herd tested negative to any individual tests for tuberculosis required by the Administrator, except that the additional test is not required if the animals are exported within 6 months of when the herd of origin tested negative to a whole herd test.

(b) *Tuberculosis and brucellosis tests of goats.* Except as provided in §§ 93.419 and 93.428(b), all goats offered for importation, except for immediate slaughter, shall be accompanied by a satisfactory certificate of a salaried veterinary officer of the national government of the region of origin, or if exported from Mexico, shall be accompanied either by such a certificate or by a certificate issued by a veterinarian accredited by the National Government of Mexico and endorsed by a full-time salaried veterinary officer of the National Government of Mexico, thereby representing that the veterinarian issuing the certificate was authorized to do so, showing that the goats have been tested for tuberculosis and brucellosis with negative results within 30 days of the date of their exportation. The said certificate shall give the dates and places of testing, method of testing, names of consignor and consignee, and a description of the goats, including breed, ages, markings, and tattoo and eartag numbers.

(c) *Further tests during quarantine.* Ruminants that have been tested as prescribed in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section and that are subject to quarantine at the port of entry, as provided in § 93.411 or § 93.427, must be retested during the last 10 days of the quarantine period under the supervision of a veterinary inspector by one or more of the methods approved by the Administrator, except that cattle tested in accordance with paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section are not required to be retested for tuberculosis.

(d) *Testing exemptions.* Cattle from Australia and New Zealand are exempt from the brucellosis testing requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section.

[55 FR 31495, Aug. 2, 1990, as amended at 57 FR 28080, June 24, 1992; 58 FR 68509, Dec. 28, 1993. Redesignated and amended at 62 FR 56012, 56018, Oct. 28, 1997; 66 FR 20190, Apr. 20, 2001; 68 FR 35533, June 16, 2003; 69 FR 21042, Apr. 20, 2004]