##### § 255.17 Recovery of overpayments from a representative payee. #####

(a) *Joint liability.* In general, if an overpayment is made to an individual receiving benefits as a representative payee (see part 266 of this chapter) the Board may recover the overpayment from either the representative payee or the beneficiary, or both. If the beneficiary is currently receiving benefits, either in his or her own right or through a representative payee, the Board will generally propose to recover the overpayment by setoff against those benefits as provided for in § 255.6 of this part. If the beneficiary is not currently receiving benefits but the representative payee is receiving benefits, then the Board will generally propose to recover the overpayment by setoff against those benefits.

(b) *Waiver of overpayments.* For purposes of § 255.10 of this part (Waiver of recovery), if it is determined that the representative payee was at fault in causing the overpayment there may be no waiver of the overpayment either as to the representative payee or the beneficiary. However, if the beneficiary was not at fault in causing the overpayment he or she may be eligible for administrative relief from recovery under § 255.16 of this part.

(c) This section may be illustrated by the following examples:

Example (1).M is receiving a child's annuity as a representative payee for her disabled son, S. With M's knowledge S marries. Although both M and S know that marriage terminates the child's annuity, neither of them informs the Board of this event. Both M and S are liable for any overpayment caused. Waiver is not available since M would be considered at fault in causing the overpayment. Administrative relief from recovery is not available to S since he would also be considered at fault.Example (2).R is a representative payee for B, who resides in a skilled-care facility. R is found to be at fault in causing an overpayment of benefits to B. The Board may recover the overpayment from either R or B. Waiver is not available because R was at fault in causing the overpayment. However, if B was not at fault in causing the overpayment he or she may be entitled to administrative relief from recovery under § 255.16 of this part.