cfr/title-46-Shipping/chapter-I-Coast-Guard-Department-Homeland-Security/subchapter-G-Documentation-Measurement-Vessels/part-67-Documentation-Vessels/subpart-C-Citizenship-Requirements-Vessel-Documentation/section-67.47.md, before:

##### § 67.47 Requirement for Maritime Administration approval. #####

(a) The following transactions, among others, require approval of the Maritime Administration in accordance with 46 CFR part 221:

(1) Placement of the vessel under foreign registry;

(2) Operation of the vessel under the authority of a foreign country; and

(3) Sale or transfer of an interest in or control of the vessel from a citizen, as defined in section 2 of the Shipping Act, 1916 (46 U.S.C. app. 802), to a person not a citizen within the meaning of section 2 of that act.

(b) A Certificate of Documentation may not be issued for a vessel which subsequent to the last issuance of a Certificate of Documentation has undergone any transaction listed in paragraph (a) of this section, even if the owner meets the citizenship requirements of this subpart, unless evidence is provided that the Maritime Administration approved the transaction.

(c) The restriction imposed by paragraph (b) of this section does not apply to a vessel identified in § 67.11(b).

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2017-09-20 issue
Title: 7: Agriculture - Sections changed: 1
Title: 13: Business Credit and Assistance - Sections changed: 45
Title: 15: Commerce and Foreign Trade - Sections changed: 8
Title: 10: Energy - Sections changed: 1
Title: 40: Protection of Environment - Sections changed: 5
Title: 46: Shipping - Sections changed: 25
Title: 47: Telecommunication - Sections changed: 11
Title: 50: Wildlife and Fisheries - Sections changed: 2

cfr/title-46-Shipping/chapter-I-Coast-Guard-Department-Homeland-Security/subchapter-G-Documentation-Measurement-Vessels/part-67-Documentation-Vessels/subpart-C-Citizenship-Requirements-Vessel-Documentation/section-67.47.md, after:

##### § 67.47 Requirement for Maritime Administration approval. #####

(a) The following transactions, among others, require approval of the Maritime Administration in accordance with 46 CFR part 221:

(1) Placement of the vessel under foreign registry;

(2) Operation of the vessel under the authority of a foreign country; and

(3) Sale or transfer of an interest in or control of the vessel from a citizen of the United States to a person not a citizen of the United States, as defined in 46 U.S.C. 50501.

(b) A Certificate of Documentation may not be issued for a vessel which subsequent to the last issuance of a Certificate of Documentation has undergone any transaction listed in paragraph (a) of this section, even if the owner meets the citizenship requirements of this subpart, unless evidence is provided that the Maritime Administration approved the transaction.

(c) The restriction imposed by paragraph (b) of this section does not apply to a vessel identified in § 67.11(b).

[CGD 89-007, CGD 89-007A, 58 FR 60266, Nov. 15, 1993, as amended by USCG-2016-0531, 82 FR 43864, Sept. 20, 2017]
