##### § 105-60.403 Appeal within GSA. #####

(a) A requester who receives a denial of a request, in whole or in part, a denial of a request for expedited processing or of a fee waiver request may appeal that decision within GSA. A requester may also appeal the adequacy of the search if GSA determines that it has searched for but has not requested records. The requester must send the appeal to the GSA FOIA Officer, General Services Administration (CAI), Washington, DC 20405, regardless of whether the denial being appealed was made in the Central Office or in a regional office. For denials which originate in the Office of Inspector General, the requester must send the appeal to the Inspector General, General Services Administration, 1800 F Street NW., Washington, DC 20405.

(b) The GSA FOIA Officer must receive an appeal no later than 120 calendar days after receipt by the requester of the initial denial of access or fee waiver.

(c) An appeal must be in writing and include a brief statement of the reasons he or she thinks GSA should release the records or provide expedited processing and enclose copies of the initial request and denial. The appeal letter must include the words “Freedom of Information Act Appeal” on both the face of the appeal letter and on the envelope. Failure to follow these procedures will delay processing of the appeal. GSA has 20 workdays after receipt of a proper appeal of denial of records to issue a determination with respect to the appeal. The 20-workday time limit shall not begin until the GSA FOIA Officer receives the appeal. As noted in § 105-60.404, the GSA FOIA Officer may extend this time limit in unusual circumstances. GSA will process appeals of denials of expedited processing as soon as possible after receiving them.

(d) A requester who receives a denial of an appeal, or who has not received a response to an appeal or initial request within the statutory time frame may seek judicial review in the United States District Court in the district in which the requester resides or has a principal place of business, or where the records are situated, or in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia.