##### ยง 2424.40 Authority decision and order. #####

Link to an amendment published at 88 FR 62459, Sept. 12, 2023.Link to a correction published at 88 FR 69873, Oct. 10, 2023.

(a) *Issuance.* Subject to the requirements of this part, the Authority will expedite proceedings under this part to the extent practicable and will issue to the exclusive representative and to the agency a written decision, explaining the specific reasons for the decision, at the earliest practicable date. The decision will include an order, as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, but, with the exception of an order to bargain, such order will not include remedies that could be obtained in an unfair labor practice proceeding under 5 U.S.C. 7118(a)(7).

(b) *Cases involving proposals.* If the Authority finds that the duty to bargain extends to the proposal, or any severable part of the proposal, then the Authority will order the agency to bargain on request concerning the proposal. If the Authority finds that the duty to bargain does not extend to the proposal, then the Authority will dismiss the petition for review. If the Authority finds that the proposal is bargainable only at the election of the agency, then the Authority will so state. If the Authority resolves a negotiability dispute by finding that a proposal is within the duty to bargain, but there are unresolved bargaining obligation dispute claims, then the Authority will order the agency to bargain on request in the event its bargaining obligation claims are resolved in a manner that requires bargaining.

(c) *Cases involving provisions.* If the Authority finds that a provision, or any severable part thereof, is not contrary to law, rule or regulation, or is bargainable at the election of the agency, the Authority will direct the agency to rescind its disapproval of such provision in whole or in part as appropriate. If the Authority finds that a provision is contrary to law, rule, or regulation, the Authority will dismiss the petition for review as to that provision.