cfr/title-29-Labor/subtitle-A-Office-Secretary-Labor/part-1-Procedures-Predetermination-Wage-Rates/section-1.1.md, before:

##### § 1.1 Purpose and scope. #####

Link to an amendment published at 88 FR 57722, Aug. 23, 2023.

(a) The procedural rules in this part apply under the Davis-Bacon Act (946 Stat. 1494, as amended; 40 U.S.C. 276a—276a-7) and other statutes listed in appendix A to this part which provide for the payment of minimum wages, including fringe benefits, to laborers and mechanics engaged in construction activity under contracts entered into or financed by or with the assistance of agencies of the United States or the District of Columbia, based on determinations by the Secretary of Labor of the wage rates and fringe benefits prevailing for the corresponding classes of laborers and mechanics employed on projects similar to the contract work in the local areas where such work is to be performed. Functions of the Secretary of Labor under these statutes and under Reorganization Plan No. 14 of 1950 (64 Stat. 1267, 5 U.S.C. appendix), except those assigned to the Administrative Review Board (see 29 CFR part 7), have been delegated to the Deputy Under Secretary of Labor for Employment Standards who in turn has delegated the functions to the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division, and authorized representatives.

(b) The regulations in this part set forth the procedures for making and applying such determinations of prevailing wage rates and fringe benefits pursuant to the Davis-Bacon Act, each of the other statutes listed in appendix A, and any other Federal statute providing for determinations of such wages by the Secretary of Labor in accordance with the provisions of the Davis-Bacon Act.

(c) Procedures set forth in this part are applicable, unless otherwise indicated, both to general wage determinations for contracts in specified localities, and to project wage determinations for use on contract work to be performed on a specific project.

[48 FR 19533, Apr. 29, 1983, as amended at 50 FR 49823, Dec. 4, 1985]

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2023-10-23 issue
Title: 16: Commercial Practices - Sections changed: 4
Title: 19: Customs Duties - Sections changed: 2
Title: 44: Emergency Management and Assistance - Sections changed: 1
Title: 2: Federal Financial Assistance - Sections changed: 9
Title: 21: Food and Drugs - Sections changed: 1
Title: 29: Labor - Sections changed: 42
Title: 30: Mineral Resources - Sections changed: 7
Title: 32: National Defense - Sections changed: 1
Title: 40: Protection of Environment - Sections changed: 3
Title: 50: Wildlife and Fisheries - Sections changed: 4

cfr/title-29-Labor/subtitle-A-Office-Secretary-Labor/part-1-Procedures-Predetermination-Wage-Rates/section-1.1.md, after:

##### § 1.1 Purpose and scope. #####

(a) The procedural rules in this part apply under the Davis-Bacon Act (46 Stat. 1494, as amended; 40 U.S.C. 3141 *et seq.*), and any laws now existing or subsequently enacted, which require the payment of minimum wages, including fringe benefits, to laborers and mechanics engaged in construction activity under contracts entered into or financed by or with the assistance of agencies of the United States or the District of Columbia, based on determinations by the Secretary of Labor of the wage rates and fringe benefits prevailing for the corresponding classes of laborers and mechanics employed on projects similar to the contract work in the local areas where such work is to be performed.

(1) A listing of laws requiring the payment of wages at rates predetermined by the Secretary of Labor under the Davis-Bacon Act can be found at *www.dol.gov/agencies/whd/government-contracts* or its successor website.

(2) Functions of the Secretary of Labor under these statutes and under Reorganization Plan No. 14 of 1950 (15 FR 3176, effective May 24, 1950, reprinted as amended in 5 U.S.C. app. 1 and in 64 Stat. 1267), except for functions assigned to the Office of Administrative Law Judges (*see* part 6 of this subtitle) and appellate functions assigned to the Administrative Review Board (*see* part 7 of this subtitle) or reserved by the Secretary of Labor (*see* Secretary's Order 01-2020 (Feb. 21, 2020)), have been delegated to the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division and authorized representatives.

(b) The regulations in this part set forth the procedures for making and applying such determinations of prevailing wage rates and fringe benefits pursuant to the Davis-Bacon Act and any laws now existing or subsequently enacted providing for determinations of such wages by the Secretary of Labor in accordance with the provisions of the Davis-Bacon Act.

(c) Procedures set forth in this part are applicable, unless otherwise indicated, both to general wage determinations for contracts in specified localities, and to project wage determinations for use on contract work to be performed on a specific project.

[48 FR 19533, Apr. 29, 1983, as amended at 50 FR 49823, Dec. 4, 1985; 88 FR 57722, Aug. 23, 2023]
