##### ยง 1104.12 Service of pleadings and papers. #####

(a) *Generally.* Every document filed with the Board should include a certificate showing simultaneous service upon all parties to the proceeding. Service on the parties should be by the same method and class of service used in serving the Board, with charges, if any, prepaid. One copy should be served on each party. If service is made on the Board in person, and personal service on other parties is not feasible, service should be made by first-class or express mail. If a document is filed with the Board through the e-filing process, a copy of the e-filed document should be emailed to other parties if that means of service is acceptable to those other parties, or a paper copy of the document should be personally served on the other parties, but if email is not acceptable to the receiving party and personal service is not feasible, service of a paper copy should be by first-class or express mail. When a party is represented by a practitioner or attorney, service upon the practitioner is deemed to be service upon the party. If a document is filed with the Board through the e-filing process, a copy of the e-filed document should be emailed to other parties, or a paper copy of the document should be personally served on the other parties, but if neither email nor personal service is feasible, service of a paper copy should be by first-class or express mail.

(b) *Exceptions.* Copies of letters to the Board relating to oral argument under part 1116, and subpoenas under ยง 1113.2, need not be served on other parties of the proceeding. Service of comments in rulemaking proceedings is not required, unless specifically directed by the Board.

(c) *Sample Certificate of Service.*

I certify that I have this day served copies of document upon all parties of record in this proceeding, by (here state the method of making service which must be consistent with this part).

Signature Date(49 U.S.C. 721, 5 U.S.C. 553)[47 FR 49554, Nov. 1, 1982, as amended at 48 FR 44827, Sept. 30, 1983; 61 FR 52711, Oct. 8, 1996; 69 FR 18499, Apr. 8, 2004; 81 FR 8853, Feb. 23, 2016]