##### § 101.4 Applications. #####

An applicant for a United States direct loan or a loan from a relending organization conducting a relending program under this part will submit an application on a form approved by the Commissioner. Applications shall include the name, current address and telephone number of the applicant(s); current and prior Taxpayer Identification Number—Employer Identification Number if a business entity, Social Security Number if an individual; and current employer's name, address, and telephone number; amount of the loan requested; purpose for which loan funds will be used; and security to be offered; period of the loan, assets, liabilities and repayment capacity of the applicant; budgets reflecting income and expenditures of the applicant; and any other information necessary to adequately evaluate the application. The borrower must sign a statement declaring no delinquency on Federal taxes or other Federal debt and borrower's good standing on dealings in procurement or non-procurement with the Federal Government. The Bureau will obtain a current credit bureau report and prescribe procedures to be used in handling loan proceeds. In addition, applications for loans to finance economic enterprises already in operation will be accompanied by:

(a) A copy of operating statements, balance sheets and budgets for the prior two operating years or applicable period thereof preceding submittal of the application;

(b) Current budget, balance sheet and operating statements; and

(c) Pro forma budgets operating statements and balance sheets showing the estimated results for operating the enterprise for two years after injection of the loan funds into the operation.

A resume of the applicant's management experience will be submitted with the application. Applications for loans and requests for advance of tribal trust funds for relending under the provisions of this part shall be accompanied by a declaration of policy and plan of operation or other acceptable plan for conducting the program. Applications for loans or modifications thereof, to establish, acquire, operate, or expand an economic enterprise shall be accompanied by a plan of operation. Declarations of policy or other plans for conducting a relending program and plans of operation for economic enterprises require the approval of the Commissioner before becoming effective. An application from a corporation, partnership or cooperative association, for a United States direct loan or a loan under a relending program for financing an economic enterprise must, in addition to financial statements and budgets, include a copy of documents establishing the entity, or the proposed documents to be used in establishing it. [40 FR 3587, Jan. 23, 1975. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982, as amended at 57 FR 46471, Oct. 8, 1992]