##### § 5.164 Revising an accepted AFH. #####

(a) *General* - (1) *Minimum criteria for revising the AFH.* An AFH previously accepted by HUD must be revised and submitted to HUD for review under the following circumstances:

(i) A material change occurs. A material change is a change in circumstances in the jurisdiction of a program participant that affects the information on which the AFH is based to the extent that the analysis, the fair housing contributing factors, or the priorities and goals of the AFH no longer reflect actual circumstances. Examples include Presidentially declared disasters, under title IV of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 *et seq.*), in the program participant's area that are of such a nature as to significantly impact the steps a program participant may need to take to affirmatively further fair housing; significant demographic changes; new significant contributing factors in the participant's jurisdiction; and civil rights findings, determinations, settlements (including Voluntary Compliance Agreements), or court orders; or

(ii) Upon HUD's written notification specifying a material change that requires the revision.

(2) *Criteria for revising the AFH.* The criteria that will be used in determining when revisions to the AFH are appropriate must be specified in the citizen participation plan adopted under the consolidated plan pursuant to 24 CFR part 91, and the public participation procedures and significant amendment process required under 24 CFR part 903. Such criteria must include, at a minimum, the circumstances described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.

(3) *Revised AFH.* A revision pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section consists of preparing and submitting amended analyses, assessments, priorities, and goals that take into account the material change, including any new fair housing issues and contributing factors that may arise as a result of the material change. A revision may not necessarily require the submission of an entirely new AFH. The revision need only focus on the material change and appropriate adjustments to the analyses, assessments, priorities, or goals.

(b) *Timeframe for revision.* (1) Where a revision is required under paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, such revision shall be submitted within 12 months of the onset of the material change, or at such later date as HUD may provide. Where the material change is the result of a Presidentially declared disaster, such time shall be automatically extended to the date that is 2 years after the date upon which the disaster declaration is made, and HUD may extend such deadline, upon request, for good cause shown.

(2)(i) Where a revision is required under paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section, HUD will specify a date by which the program participant must submit the revision of the AFH to HUD, taking into account the material change, the program participant's capacity, and the need for a valid AFH to guide planning activities. HUD may extend the due date upon written request by the program participant that describes the reasons the program participant is unable to make the deadline.

(ii) On or before 30 calendar days following the date of HUD's written notification under paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section, the program participant may advise HUD in writing of its belief that a revision to the AFH is not required. The program participant must state with specificity the reasons for its belief that a revision is not required. HUD will respond on or before 30 calendar days following the date of the receipt of the program participant's correspondence and will advise the program participant in writing whether HUD agrees or disagrees with the program participant. If HUD disagrees, the program participant must proceed with the revision. HUD may establish a new due date that is later than the date specified in its original notification.

(c) *Community participation.* Revisions to an AFH, as described in this section, are subject to community participation. The jurisdiction must follow the notice and comment process applicable to consolidated plan substantial amendments under the jurisdiction's citizen participation plan adopted pursuant to 24 CFR part 91 (see 24 CFR 91.105, 91.115, and 91.401). A consortium must follow the participation process applicable to consolidated plan substantial amendments under the consortium's citizen participation plan adopted pursuant to 24 CFR 91.401. Insular areas submitting an abbreviated consolidated plan shall follow the citizen participation requirements of 24 CFR 570.441. The PHA must follow the notice and comment process applicable to significant amendments or modifications pursuant to 24 CFR 903.13, 903.15, 903.17, and 903.21.

(d) *Submission to HUD of the revised AFH.* Upon completion, any revision to the AFH must be made public and submitted to HUD at the time of the revision.

(e) *PHAs.* Upon any revision to the AFH pursuant to §§ 5.150 through 5.180, PHAs must revise their PHA Plan within 12 months, consistent with the AFH revision, and pursuant to 24 CFR 903.15(c).