cfr/title-19-Customs-Duties/chapter-III-International-Trade-Administration-Department-Commerce/part-351-Antidumping-Countervailing-Duties/subpart-E-Identification-Measurement-Countervailable-Subsidies/section-351.510.md, before:

##### § 351.510 Indirect taxes and import charges (other than export programs). #####

Link to an amendment published at 89 FR 101766, Dec. 16, 2024.

(a) *Benefit*—(1) *Exemption or remission of taxes.* In the case of a program, other than an export program, that provides for the full or partial exemption or remission of an indirect tax or an import charge, a benefit exists to the extent that the taxes or import charges paid by a firm as a result of the program are less than the taxes the firm would have paid in the absence of the program.

(2) *Deferral of taxes.* In the case of a program, other than an export program, that provides for a deferral of indirect taxes or import charges, a benefit exists to the extent that appropriate interest charges are not collected. Normally, a deferral of indirect taxes or import charges will be treated as a government-provided loan in the amount of the taxes deferred, according to the methodology described in § 351.505. The Secretary will use a short-term interest rate as the benchmark for tax deferrals of one year or less. The Secretary will use a long-term interest rate as the benchmark for tax deferrals of more than one year.

(b) *Time of receipt of benefit*—(1) *Exemption or remission of taxes.* In the case of a full or partial exemption or remission of an indirect tax or import charge, the Secretary normally will consider the benefit as having been received at the time the recipient firm otherwise would be required to pay the indirect tax or import charge.

(2) *Deferral of taxes.* In the case of the deferral of an indirect tax or import charge of one year or less, the Secretary normally will consider the benefit as having been received on the date on which the deferred tax becomes due. In the case of a multi-year deferral, the Secretary normally will consider the benefit as having been received on the anniversary date(s) of the deferral.

(c) *Allocation of benefit to a particular time period.* The Secretary normally will allocate (expense) the benefit of a full or partial exemption, remission, or deferral described in paragraph (a) of this section to the year in which the benefit is considered to have been received under paragraph (b) of this section.

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2025-01-15 issue
Title: 5: Administrative Personnel - Sections changed: 14
Title: 12: Banks and Banking - Sections changed: 5
Title: 15: Commerce and Foreign Trade - Sections changed: 24
Title: 19: Customs Duties - Sections changed: 28
Title: 20: Employees' Benefits - Sections changed: 8
Title: 10: Energy - Sections changed: 2
Title: 25: Indians - Sections changed: 3
Title: 26: Internal Revenue - Sections changed: 15
Title: 29: Labor - Sections changed: 13
Title: 30: Mineral Resources - Sections changed: 5
Title: 31: Money and Finance: Treasury - Sections changed: 34
Title: 32: National Defense - Sections changed: 1
Title: 33: Navigation and Navigable Waters - Sections changed: 1
Title: 40: Protection of Environment - Sections changed: 136
Title: 41: Public Contracts and Property Management - Sections changed: 15
Title: 45: Public Welfare - Sections changed: 62
Title: 46: Shipping - Sections changed: 10
Title: 47: Telecommunication - Sections changed: 1
Title: 49: Transportation - Sections changed: 8
Title: 50: Wildlife and Fisheries - Sections changed: 39

cfr/title-19-Customs-Duties/chapter-III-International-Trade-Administration-Department-Commerce/part-351-Antidumping-Countervailing-Duties/subpart-E-Identification-Measurement-Countervailable-Subsidies/section-351.510.md, after:

##### § 351.510 Indirect taxes and import charges (other than export programs). #####

(a) *Benefit*—(1) *Exemption or remission of taxes.* In the case of a program other than an export program that provides for the full or partial exemption or remission of an indirect tax or an import charge, a benefit exists to the extent that the taxes or import charges paid by a firm as a result of the program are less than the taxes the firm would have paid in the absence of the program, including as a result of being located in an area designated by the government as being outside the customs territory of the country.

(2) *Deferral of taxes.* In the case of a program, other than an export program, that provides for a deferral of indirect taxes or import charges, a benefit exists to the extent that appropriate interest charges are not collected. Normally, a deferral of indirect taxes or import charges will be treated as a government-provided loan in the amount of the taxes deferred, according to the methodology described in § 351.505. The Secretary will use a short-term interest rate as the benchmark for tax deferrals of one year or less. The Secretary will use a long-term interest rate as the benchmark for tax deferrals of more than one year.

(b) *Time of receipt of benefit*—(1) *Exemption or remission of taxes.* In the case of a full or partial exemption or remission of an indirect tax or import charge, the Secretary normally will consider the benefit as having been received at the time the recipient firm otherwise would be required to pay the indirect tax or import charge.

(2) *Deferral of taxes.* In the case of the deferral of an indirect tax or import charge of one year or less, the Secretary normally will consider the benefit as having been received on the date on which the deferred tax becomes due. In the case of a multi-year deferral, the Secretary normally will consider the benefit as having been received on the anniversary date(s) of the deferral.

(c) *Allocation of benefit to a particular time period.* The Secretary normally will allocate (expense) the benefit of a full or partial exemption, remission, or deferral described in paragraph (a) of this section to the year in which the benefit is considered to have been received under paragraph (b) of this section.

[63 FR 65407, Nov. 25, 1998, as amended at 89 FR 101766, Dec. 16, 2024]
