##### ยง 2424.25 Response of the exclusive representative; purpose; time limits; content; severance; service. #####

(a) *Purpose.* The purpose of the exclusive representative's response is to inform the Authority and the agency why, despite the agency's arguments in its statement of position, the proposal or provision is within the duty to bargain or not contrary to law, respectively, and whether the exclusive representative disagrees with any facts or arguments in the agency's statement of position.

(b) *Time limit for filing.* Unless the time limit for filing has been extended pursuant to ยง 2424.23 or part 2429 of this subchapter, within fifteen (15) days after the date the exclusive representative receives a copy of an agency's statement of position, the exclusive representative must file a response.

(c) *Content.* You must file your response on a form that the Authority has provided for that purpose, or in a substantially similar format. You meet this requirement if you file your response electronically through use of the eFiling system on the FLRA's website at *www.flra.gov.* That website also provides copies of response forms. With the exception of severance under paragraph (d) of this section, you must limit your response to the matters that the agency raised in its statement of position. You must date your response, unless you file it electronically through use of the FLRA's eFiling system. And, regardless of how you file your response, you must ensure that it identifies any disagreement with the agency's bargaining obligation or negotiability claims. You must: State the arguments and authorities supporting your opposition to any agency argument; include specific citation to, and explanation of the relevance of, any law, rule, regulation, section of a collective bargaining agreement, or other authority on which you rely; and provide a copy of any such material that the Authority may not easily access (which you may upload as attachments if you file your response electronically through use of the FLRA's eFiling system). You are not required to repeat arguments that you made in your petition for review. If not included in the petition for review, then you must state the arguments and authorities supporting your position on all of the relevant bargaining obligation and negotiability matters identified in ยง 2424.2(a) and (c), respectively.

(d) *Severance.* If not requested in the petition for review, or if the exclusive representative wishes to modify the request in the petition for review, the exclusive representative may request severance in its response. The exclusive representative must support its request with an explanation of how the severed portion(s) of the proposal or provision may stand alone, and how such severed portion(s) would operate. The exclusive representative also must respond to any agency arguments regarding severance made in the agency's statement of position. The explanation and argument in support of the severed portion(s) must meet the same requirements for specific information set forth in paragraph (c) of this section.

(e) *Service.* A copy of the response of the exclusive representative, including all attachments, must be served in accord with ยง 2424.2(g).

[63 FR 66413, Dec. 2, 1998, as amended at 74 FR 51745, Oct. 8, 2009; 77 FR 26434, May 4, 2012; 88 FR 62458, Sept. 12, 2023; 88 FR 69873, Oct. 10, 2023; 88 FR 70579, Oct. 12, 2023]