##### § 2634.308 Reporting periods and contents of public financial disclosure reports. #####

(a) *Incumbents.* Each financial disclosure report filed pursuant to § 2634.201(a) shall include on the standard form prescribed by the Office of Government Ethics consistent with subpart F of this part and in accordance with instructions issued by that Office, a full and complete statement of the information required to be reported according to the provisions of subpart C of this part, for the preceding calendar year (except for §§ 2634.303 and 2634.304, relating to transactions and gifts/reimbursements, for which the reporting period does not include any portion of the previous calendar year during which the filer was not a Federal employee), and in the case of §§ 2634.306 and 2634.307, to include the additional period up to the date of filing.

(b) *New entrants, nominees, and candidates.* Each financial disclosure report filed pursuant to § 2634.201(b), (c), or (d) shall include, on the standard form prescribed by the Office of Government Ethics consistent with subpart F of this part and in accordance with instructions issued by that Office, a full and complete statement of the information required to be reported according to the provisions of subpart C of this part, except for § 2634.303 (relating to purchases, sales, and exchanges of certain property) and § 2634.304 (relating to gifts and reimbursements). The following special rules apply:

(1) *Interests in property.* For purposes of § 2634.301 of this subpart, the report shall include all interests in property specified by that section which are held on or after a date which is fewer than thirty-one days before the date on which the report is filed.

(2) *Income.* For puposes of § 2634.302 of this subpart, the report shall include all income items specified by that section which are received or accrued during the period beginning on January 1 of the preceding calendar year and ending on the date on which the report is filed, except as otherwise provided by § 2634.606 relating to updated disclosure for nominees.

(3) *Liabilities.* For purposes of § 2634.305 of this subpart, the report shall include all liabilities specified by that section which are owed during the period beginning on January 1 of the preceding calendar year and ending fewer than thirty-one days before the date on which the report is filed.

(4) *Agreements and arrangements.* For purposes of § 2634.306 of this subpart, the report shall include only those agreements and arrangements which still exist at the time of filing.

(5) *Outside positions.* For purposes of § 2634.307 of this subpart, the report shall include all such positions held during the preceding two calendar years and the current calendar year up to the date of filing.

(6) *Certain sources of compensation.* Except in the case of the President, the Vice President, or a candidate referred to in § 2634.201(d), the report shall also identify the filer's sources of compensation which exceed $5,000 during either of the preceding two calendar years or during the current calendar year up to the date of filing, and shall briefly describe the nature of the duties performed or services rendered by the reporting individual for each such source of compensation. Information need not be reported, however, which is considered confidential as a result of a privileged relationship, established by law, between the reporting individual and any person. The report also need not contain any information with respect to any person for whom services were provided by any firm or association of which the reporting individual was a member, partner, or employee, unless such individual was directly involved in the provision of such services.

Example:A nominee who is a partner or employee of a law firm and who has worked on a matter involving a client from which the firm received over $5,000 in fees during a calendar year must report the name of the client only if the value of the services rendered by the nominee exceeded $5,000. The name of the client would not normally be considered confidential.

(c) *Termination reports.* Each financial disclosure report filed under § 2634.201(e) shall include, on the standard form prescribed by the Office of Government Ethics consistent with subpart F of this part and in accordance with instructions issued by that Office, a full and complete statement of the information required to be reported according to the provisions of subpart C of this part, for the period beginning on the last date covered by the most recent financial disclosure report filed by the reporting individual under this part, or on January 1 of the preceding calendar year, whichever is later, and ending on the date on which the filer's employment terminates.

[57 FR 11808, Apr. 7, 1992, as amended at 67 FR 57938, Sept. 13, 2002; 71 FR 28234, May 16, 2006]