##### ยง 30.400 What are the basic rules for obtaining medical treatment? #####

(a) A covered Part B employee or a covered Part E employee who fits into at least one of the compensable claim categories described in subpart C of this part is entitled to receive all medical services, appliances or supplies that a qualified physician prescribes or recommends and that OWCP considers necessary to treat his or her occupational illness or covered illness, retroactive to the date the claim for benefits for that occupational illness or covered illness under Part B or Part E of EEOICPA was filed. In situations where the occupational illness or covered illness is a secondary cancer, such treatment may include treatment of the underlying primary cancer when it is medically necessary or related to treatment of the secondary cancer; however, payment for medical treatment of the underlying primary cancer under these circumstances does not constitute a determination by OWCP that the primary cancer is a covered illness under Part E of EEOICPA. The employee need not be disabled to receive such treatment. When a survivor receives payment, OWCP will pay for such treatment if the employee died before the claim was paid. If there is any doubt as to whether a specific service, appliance or supply is necessary to treat the occupational illness or covered illness, the employee should consult OWCP prior to obtaining it.

(b) If a claimant disagrees with the decision of OWCP that medical benefits provided under paragraph (a) of this section are not necessary to treat an occupational illness or covered illness, he or she may choose to utilize the adjudicatory process described in subpart D of this part.

(c) Any qualified physician or qualified hospital may provide medical services, appliances and supplies to the covered Part B employee or the covered Part E employee. A qualified provider of medical support services may also furnish appropriate services, appliances, and supplies. OWCP may apply a test of cost-effectiveness when it decides if appliances and supplies are necessary to treat an occupational illness or covered illness. With respect to prescribed medications, OWCP may require the use of generic equivalents where they are available.