##### § 52.1602 Control strategy and regulations: PM2.5. #####

(a) Approval—On May 18, 2006, New Jersey submitted an early PM2.5 implementation plan to set motor vehicle emissions budgets for the New Jersey portion of the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island, NY-NJ-CT, PM2.5 nonattainment area. The budgets were allocated by metropolitan planning organization as follows: North Jersey Transportation Planning Authority: 1,207 tons per year of direct PM2.5 and 61,676 tons per year of NOX; Delaware Valley Regional Planning Commission: 89 tons per year of direct PM2.5 and 4,328 tons per year of NOX.

(b) Approval—On February 25, 2008, New Jersey submitted a revision to its early PM2.5 implementation plan to revise the motor vehicle emissions budgets for the Mercer County, New Jersey portion of the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island, NY-NJ-CT, PM2.5 nonattainment area. The revised budgets, applicable to the Delaware Valley Regional Planning Commission, are as follows: 108 tons per year of direct PM2.5 and 5,056 tons per year of NOX.

(c) *Determination of Attainment.* EPA has determined, as of December 15, 2010, that the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island, NY-NJ-CT fine particle (PM2.5) nonattainment area has attained the 1997 PM2.5 National Ambient Air Quality Standard. This determination, in accordance with 40 CFR 51.1004(c), suspends the requirements for this area to submit an attainment demonstration, associated reasonably available control measures, a reasonable further progress plan, contingency measures, and other planning SIPs related to attainment of the standard for as long as the area continues to attain the 1997 PM2.5 NAAQS.

(d) *Determination of Attainment.* EPA has determined, as of *May 16, 2012,* that the Philadelphia-Wilmington, PA-NJ-DE fine particle (PM2.5) nonattainment area has attained the 1997 PM2.5 National Ambient Air Quality Standard. This determination, in accordance with 40 CFR 51.1004(c), suspends the requirements for this area to submit an attainment demonstration, associated reasonably available control measures, a reasonable further progress plan, contingency measures, and other planning SIPs related to attainment of the standard for as long as the area continues to attain the 1997 PM2.5 NAAQS.

(e) *Determination of Attainment.* EPA has determined, as of December 31, 2012, that the New York-N. New Jersey-Long Island, NY-NJ-CT fine particle (PM2.5) nonattainment area has attained the 2006 PM2.5 National Ambient Air Quality Standard. This determination suspends the requirements for this area to submit an attainment demonstration, associated reasonably available control measures, a reasonable further progress plan, contingency measures, and other planning SIPs related to attainment of the standard for as long as the area continues to attain the 2006 PM2.5 NAAQS.

(f) *Determination of Attainment.* EPA has determined, as of January 7, 2013, that based on 2008 to 2010 and 2009 to 2011 ambient air quality data, the Philadelphia-Wilmington, PA-NJ-DE fine particulate (PM2.5) nonattainment area has attained the 2006 24-hour PM2.5 national ambient air quality standard (NAAQS). This determination suspends the requirements for the Philadelphia-Wilmington, PA-NJ-DE PM2.5 nonattainment area to submit an attainment demonstration, associated reasonably available control measures, a reasonable further progress plan, contingency measures, and other planning SIPs related to attainment of the standard for as long as this area continues to meet the 2006 24-hour PM2.5 NAAQS.

(g) Approval—The maintenance plan submitted on December 26, 2012, and supplemented on May 3, 2013, for the 1997 PM2.5 National Ambient Air Quality Standard and the 2006 PM2.5 National Ambient Air Quality Standard for the New Jersey portion of the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island, NY-NJ-CT, PM2.5 nonattainment area and the New Jersey portion of the Philadelphia-Wilmington, PA-NJ-DE, PM2.5 nonattainment area has been approved.

(1) The maintenance plan establishes 2009 motor vehicle emission budgets for the New Jersey portion of the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island, NY-NJ-CT, PM2.5 nonattainment area. The budgets were allocated by metropolitan planning organization as follows: North Jersey Transportation Planning Authority: 67,272 tons per year for NOX and 2,736 tons per year for PM2.5; Delaware Valley Regional Planning Commission (Mercer County): 5,835 tons per year for NOX and 224 tons per year for PM2.5.

(2) The maintenance plan establishes 2025 motor vehicle emission budgets for the New Jersey portion of the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island, NY-NJ-CT, PM2.5 nonattainment area. The budgets were allocated by metropolitan planning organization as follows: North Jersey Transportation Planning Authority: 25,437 tons per year for NOX and 1,509 tons per year for PM2.5; Delaware Valley Regional Planning Commission (Mercer County): 2,551 tons per year for NOX and 119 tons per year for PM2.5.

(3) The maintenance plan establishes 2009 motor vehicle emission budgets for the New Jersey portion of the Philadelphia-Wilmington, PA-NJ-DE, PM2.5 nonattainment area. The budgets were allocated by metropolitan planning organization as follows: Delaware Valley Regional Planning Commission (Burlington, Camden, and Gloucester Counties): 18,254 tons per year for NOX and 680 tons per year for PM2.5.

(4) The maintenance plan establishes 2025 motor vehicle emission budgets for the New Jersey portion of the Philadelphia-Wilmington, PA-NJ-DE, PM2.5 nonattainment area. The budgets were allocated by metropolitan planning organization as follows: Delaware Valley Regional Planning Commission (Burlington, Camden, and Gloucester Counties): 8,003 tons per year for NOX and 363 tons per year for PM2.5.

(h) Approval—The 2007 attainment year emissions inventory for the New Jersey portions of the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island, NY-NJ-CT, PM2.5 nonattainment area and the Philadelphia-Wilmington, PA-NJ-DE, PM2.5 nonattainment area consisting of NOX, VOC, NH3, directly emitted PM2.5, and SO2 emissions. This inventory satisfies the comprehensive emission inventory requirements of section 172(c)(3).

[73 FR 24870, June 5, 2008, as amended at 75 FR 69591, Nov. 15, 2010; 77 FR 28785, May 15, 2012; 77 FR 76871, Dec. 31, 2012; 78 FR 54398, Sept. 4, 2013]