##### § 644.478 Demolition of buildings and other improvements for utilization of salvage material. #####

With respect to DA property, demolition may be undertaken by the DE of buildings on non-excess land made available for disposal, when the salvage is to be used in construction or maintenance work by the Corps of Engineers or upon specific request from another service where funds for the purpose are made available. Real Estate funds will not be used for such demolition. Determination of practicability for use of buildings or improvements in authorized new construction at other sites or for salvage of materials will be made by the DE in accordance with existing instructions relating to use of materials in new construction. Where restoration of leased premises is being performed, it is the responsibility of the Corps of Engineers to perform the necessary demolition work as part of the restoration obligation, as set forth in §§ 644.444 through 644.471. Demolition may be accomplished under contract when special or expert services are required for removal of certain types of structures and funds are available therefor. Unused salvage materials will be turned over to redistribution and salvage officers for redistribution or disposal in accordance with existing regulations pertaining to personal property. The relocation of buildings or improvements on the same installation or for re-erection at another installation is not to be accomplished as a real estate function (AR 420-70). Further, it is provided in AR 420-70 that demolition of buildings or improvements where retention of the salvage for use at the installation is approved, or where no requirement or market is found for buildings or improvements approved for disposal by the Corps of Engineers, is a facilities engineering responsibility. Pursuant to AFR 87-4, disposal of AF buildings and improvements by sale will be accomplished by the Corps of Engineers, but all disposal of such property by salvage will be accomplished by the base commander.