##### ยง 644.484 Procedure for disposal through the Department of HEW or successor agencies. #####

During the period held, action preparatory to the publication of Invitations for Bids and Specifications of Sale of Buildings and Improvements will be taken in order to minimize the time lapse between the expiration of the 20-day period and the beginning of the sale procedure. Inquiries received prior to the expiration of the holding period from state or local agencies or qualified organizations seeking the purchase of available improvements for health or educational purposes, will be referred to the appropriate field representatives of HEW.

(a) Final disposal is not effected until the improvements have been transferred by HEW to an eligible recipient. Therefore, in the letter of assignment, HEW will be requested to furnish to the responsible DE, three copies of the sales contract. One copy of the contract will be forwarded to the officer accountable for the property, together with a certificate of performance upon completion of the operation (the latter to be furnished by the HEW contracting officer), and one copy will be furnished to the property auditor charged with periodic audit of the property records.

(b) Should HEW fail to consummate disposition of the improvements after assignment to it and request cancellation of the assignment, the assignment may be cancelled by a letter of cancellation and appropriate disposition of the improvements affected. If there is an excessive number of such requests, DAEN-REM will be informed in order that corrective action may be requested of HEW.