##### ยง 239.8 Cost sharing. #####

At local protection projects local interests are required to provide all lands, easements, rights-of-way and all alterations and relocations of utilities, streets, bridges, buildings, storm drains and other structures and improvements; hold and save the United States free from damages due to the construction works except damages due to the fault or negligence of the United States or its contractor; and assume operation and maintenance of the works after completion. In addition, local interests are required to provide additional cost sharing to reflect special local benefits or betterments. Such additional special cost sharing will not be required for covered channels when the addition of the cover increases net NED flood control benefits when compared to the open channel or when they are provided for safety in schoolyards, playgrounds, or other known play areas for juveniles. However, the separable cost of providing covers for mitigating SWB or RD impacts or to provide areas for public or private uses such as parking, or the provision of areas for recreation development, etc., will be assigned to local interests. The separable cost of recreational facilities to be constructed on or adjacent to the cover, *i.e.*, picnic facilities, etc., are eligible for Federal participation in accordance with cost-sharing policies for recreation facilities at local protection projects. Cost-sharing policies for project features which are included to make positive contributions to the EQ account are being developed. Until such policies are developed, proposals to cover channels on this basis will be coordinated with HQDA (DAEN-CWP), Washington, D.C. 20314.