cfr/title-21-Food-Drugs/chapter-II-Drug-Enforcement-Administration-Department-Justice/part-1312-Importation-Exportation-Controlled-Substances/subjectgroup-ECFRc11ae182f37bc43-Importation-Controlled-Substances/section-1312.11.md, before:

##### § 1312.11 Requirement of authorization to import. #####

Link to an amendment published at 81 FR 97026, Dec. 30, 2016.Link to a delay published at 82 FR 8688, Jan. 30, 2017.

(a) No person shall import or cause to be imported any controlled substance listed in Schedule I or II or any narcotic controlled substance listed in Schedule III, IV or V or any non-narcotic controlled substance in Schedule III which the Administrator has specifically designated by regulation in § 1312.30 of this part or any non-narcotic controlled substance in Schedule IV or V which is also listed in Schedule I or II of the Convention on Psychotropic Substances unless and until such person is properly registered under the Act (or exempt from registration) and the Administrator has issued him a permit to do so pursuant to § 1312.13 of this part.

(b) No person shall import or cause to be imported any non-narcotic controlled substance listed in Schedule III, IV or V, excluding those described in paragraph (a) of this section, unless and until such person is properly registered under the Act (or exempt from registration) and has filed an import declaration to do so with the Administrator, pursuant to § 1312.18 of this part.

(c) When an import permit or declaration is required, a separate permit or declaration must be obtained for each consignment of controlled substances to be imported.

[36 FR 7815, Apr. 24, 1971, as amended at 37 FR 15923, Aug. 8, 1972. Redesignated at 38 FR 26609, Sept. 24, 1973, and amended at 52 FR 17289, May 7, 1987]

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2017-03-21 issue
Title: 5: Administrative Personnel - Sections changed: 34
Title: 14: Aeronautics and Space - Sections changed: 26
Title: 7: Agriculture - Sections changed: 12
Title: 9: Animals and Animal Products - Sections changed: 15
Title: 13: Business Credit and Assistance - Sections changed: 21
Title: 15: Commerce and Foreign Trade - Sections changed: 1
Title: 19: Customs Duties - Sections changed: 14
Title: 34: Education - Sections changed: 29
Title: 10: Energy - Sections changed: 31
Title: 2: Federal Financial Assistance - Sections changed: 1
Title: 21: Food and Drugs - Sections changed: 76
Title: 24: Housing and Urban Development - Sections changed: 1
Title: 26: Internal Revenue - Sections changed: 3
Title: 28: Judicial Administration - Sections changed: 2
Title: 29: Labor - Sections changed: 8
Title: 36: Parks, Forests, and Public Property - Sections changed: 12
Title: 37: Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights - Sections changed: 2
Title: 38: Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief - Sections changed: 4
Title: 40: Protection of Environment - Sections changed: 54
Title: 42: Public Health - Sections changed: 89
Title: 47: Telecommunication - Sections changed: 10
Title: 49: Transportation - Sections changed: 14
Title: 50: Wildlife and Fisheries - Sections changed: 26

cfr/title-21-Food-Drugs/chapter-II-Drug-Enforcement-Administration-Department-Justice/part-1312-Importation-Exportation-Controlled-Substances/subjectgroup-ECFRc11ae182f37bc43-Importation-Controlled-Substances/section-1312.11.md, after:

##### § 1312.11 Requirement of authorization to import. #####

(a) No person shall import, or cause to be imported, into the customs territory of the United States from any place outside thereof (but within the United States), or into the United States from any place outside thereof, any controlled substances listed in Schedule I or II, or any narcotic controlled substance listed in Schedule III, IV, or V, or any non-narcotic controlled substance listed in Schedule III which the Administrator has specifically designated by regulation in § 1312.30 or any non-narcotic controlled substance listed in Schedule IV or V which is also listed in Schedule I or II of the Convention on Psychotropic Substances, 1971, unless and until such person is properly registered under the Act (or, in accordance with part 1301 of this chapter, exempt from registration) and the Administration has issued him or her a permit to do so in accordance with § 1312.13.

(b) No person shall import, or cause to be imported, into the customs territory of the United States from any place outside thereof (but within the United States), or into the United States from any place outside thereof, any non-narcotic controlled substance listed in Schedule III, IV, or V, excluding those described in paragraph (a) of this section, unless and until such person is properly registered under the Act (or, in accordance with part 1301 of this chapter, exempt from registration) and has filed an import declaration to do so in accordance with § 1312.18.

(c) A separate permit or declaration is required for each shipment of a controlled substance to be imported.

[81 FR 97026, Dec. 30, 2016]
