##### ยง 1312.15 Shipments in greater or less amount than authorized. #####

Link to an amendment published at 81 FR 97027, Dec. 30, 2016.Link to a delay published at 82 FR 8688, Jan. 30, 2017.

(a) If the shipment made under an import permit is greater than the maximum amount authorized to be imported under the permit, as determined at the weighing by the District Director of the U.S. Customs Service, such difference shall be seized subject to forfeiture, pending an explanation; except that shipments of substances exceeding the maximum authorized amount by less than 1 percent may be released to the importer upon the filing by him of an amended import permit. If the substance is included in Schedule I, it will be summarily forfeited to the Government.

(b) If the shipment made under the permit is less than the maximum amount authorized to be imported under the permit as determined at the weighing by the District Director of the U.S. Customs Service, such difference, when ascertained by the Administration, shall be recredited to the tentative allotment against which the quantity covered by the permit was charged, and the balance of any such tentative allotment with any such recredits will remain available to the importer to whom made (unless previously revoked in whole or in part), for importations pursuant to any permit or permits as are requested and issued during the remainder of the calendar year to which the allotment is applicable. No permit shall be issued for importation of a quantity of controlled substances as a charge against the tentative allotment for a given calendar year, after the close of such calendar year, unless the Director of the Administration decides to make an exception for good cause shown.

[36 FR 7815, Apr. 24, 1971. Redesignated at 38 FR 26609, Sept. 24, 1973, and amended at 46 FR 28841, May 29, 1981]