cfr/title-13-Business-Credit-Assistance/chapter-I-Small-Business-Administration/part-124-8a-Business-DevelopmentSmall-Disadvantaged-Business-Status-Determinations/subpart-A-8a-Business-Development/subjectgroup-ECFR4ef1291a4a984ab-Eligibility-Requirements-Participation-8span-classstandardaspan-Business-Development-Program/section-124.111.md, before:

##### § 124.111 Do Community Development Corporations (CDCs) have any special rules for applying to the 8(a) BD program? #####

Link to an amendment published at 85 FR 66184, Oct. 16, 2020.

(a) Concerns owned at least 51 percent by CDCs (or a wholly owned business entity of a CDC) are eligible for participation in the 8(a) BD program and other federal programs requiring SBA to determine social and economic disadvantage as a condition of eligibility. These concerns must meet all eligibility criteria set forth in § 124.101 through § 124.108 and § 124.112 to the extent that they are not inconsistent with this section.

(b) A concern that is at least 51 percent owned by a CDC (or a wholly owned business entity of a CDC) is considered to be controlled by such CDC and eligible for participation in the 8(a) BD program, provided it meets all eligibility criteria set forth or referred to in this section and its management and daily business operations are conducted by one or more individuals determined to have managerial experience of an extent and complexity needed to run the concern.

(c) A concern that is at least 51 percent owned by a CDC (or a wholly owned business entity of a CDC) must qualify as a small business concern as defined in part 121 of this title. The size standard corresponding to the primary industry classification of the applicant concern applies for determining size. SBA will determine the concern's size independently, without regard to its affiliation with the CDC or any other business enterprise owned by the CDC, unless the Administrator determines that one or more such concerns owned by the CDC have obtained, or are likely to obtain, a substantial unfair competitive advantage within an industry category. In determining whether a CDC-owned concern has obtained, or is likely to obtain, a substantial unfair competitive advantage within an industry category, SBA will examine the firm's participation in the relevant six digit NAICS code nationally.

(1) SBA will consider the firm's percentage share of the national market and other relevant factors to determine whether the firm is dominant in a specific six-digit NAICS code with a particular size standard.

(2) SBA does not contemplate a finding of affiliation where a CDC-owned concern appears to have obtained an unfair competitive advantage in a local market, but remains competitive, but not dominant, on a national basis.

(d) A CDC cannot own 51% or more of another firm which, either at the time of application or within the previous two years, has been operating in the 8(a) program under the same primary NAICS code as the applicant. A CDC may, however, own a Participant or an applicant that conducts or will conduct secondary business in the 8(a) BD program under the same NAICS code that a current Participant owned by the CDC operates in the 8(a) BD program as its primary SIC code. In addition, once an applicant is admitted to the 8(a) BD program, it may not receive an 8(a) sole source contract that is a follow-on contract to an 8(a) contract that was performed immediately previously by another Participant (or former Participant) owned by the same CDC. For purposes of this paragraph, the same primary NAICS code means the six digit NAICS code having the same corresponding size standard.

(e) SBA does not deem an individual involved in the management or daily business operations of a CDC-owned concern to have used his or her individual eligibility within the meaning of § 124.108(b).

(f) An applicant concern owned by a CDC must possess reasonable prospects for success in competing in the private sector if admitted to the 8(a) BD program. An applicant concern owned by a CDC may establish potential for success by demonstrating that:

(1) It has been in business for at least two years, as evidenced by income tax returns (individual or consolidated) for each of the two previous tax years showing operating revenues in the primary industry in with the applicant is seeking 8(a) BD certification; or

(2) The individual(s) who will manage and control the daily business operations of the firm have substantial technical and management experience, the applicant has a record of successful performance on contracts from governmental or nongovernmental sources in its primary industry category, and the applicant has adequate capital to sustain its operations and carry out its business plan as a Participant; or

(3) The CDC has made a firm written commitment to support the operations of the applicant concern and it has the financial ability to do so.

(g) A CDC-owned applicant and all of its principals must have good character as set forth in § 124.108(a).

[63 FR 35739, June 30, 1998, as amended at 76 FR 8257, Feb. 11, 2011; 77 FR 28237, May 14, 2012; 81 FR 48581, July 25, 2016]

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2020-11-16 issue
Title: 5: Administrative Personnel - Sections changed: 22
Title: 7: Agriculture - Sections changed: 5
Title: 13: Business Credit and Assistance - Sections changed: 54
Title: 17: Commodity and Securities Exchanges - Sections changed: 30
Title: 20: Employees' Benefits - Sections changed: 28
Title: 10: Energy - Sections changed: 59
Title: 48: Federal Acquisition Regulations System - Sections changed: 4
Title: 2: Federal Financial Assistance - Sections changed: 3
Title: 21: Food and Drugs - Sections changed: 19
Title: 23: Highways - Sections changed: 24
Title: 29: Labor - Sections changed: 42
Title: 31: Money and Finance: Treasury - Sections changed: 5
Title: 36: Parks, Forests, and Public Property - Sections changed: 4
Title: 40: Protection of Environment - Sections changed: 59
Title: 42: Public Health - Sections changed: 29
Title: 45: Public Welfare - Sections changed: 18
Title: 50: Wildlife and Fisheries - Sections changed: 5

cfr/title-13-Business-Credit-Assistance/chapter-I-Small-Business-Administration/part-124-8a-Business-DevelopmentSmall-Disadvantaged-Business-Status-Determinations/subpart-A-8a-Business-Development/subjectgroup-ECFR4ef1291a4a984ab-Eligibility-Requirements-Participation-8span-classstandardaspan-Business-Development-Program/section-124.111.md, after:

##### § 124.111 Do Community Development Corporations (CDCs) have any special rules for applying to and remaining eligible for the 8(a) BD program? #####

(a) Concerns owned at least 51 percent by CDCs (or a wholly owned business entity of a CDC) are eligible for participation in the 8(a) BD program and other federal programs requiring SBA to determine social and economic disadvantage as a condition of eligibility. These concerns must meet all eligibility criteria set forth in § 124.101 through § 124.108 and § 124.112 to the extent that they are not inconsistent with this section.

(b) A concern that is at least 51 percent owned by a CDC (or a wholly owned business entity of a CDC) is considered to be controlled by such CDC and eligible for participation in the 8(a) BD program, provided it meets all eligibility criteria set forth or referred to in this section and its management and daily business operations are conducted by one or more individuals determined to have managerial experience of an extent and complexity needed to run the concern.

(c) A concern that is at least 51 percent owned by a CDC (or a wholly owned business entity of a CDC) must qualify as a small business concern as defined in part 121 of this title. The size standard corresponding to the primary industry classification of the applicant concern applies for determining size. SBA will determine the concern's size independently, without regard to its affiliation with the CDC or any other business enterprise owned by the CDC, unless the Administrator determines that one or more such concerns owned by the CDC have obtained, or are likely to obtain, a substantial unfair competitive advantage within an industry category. In determining whether a CDC-owned concern has obtained, or is likely to obtain, a substantial unfair competitive advantage within an industry category, SBA will examine the firm's participation in the relevant six digit NAICS code nationally.

(1) SBA will consider the firm's percentage share of the national market and other relevant factors to determine whether the firm is dominant in a specific six-digit NAICS code with a particular size standard.

(2) SBA does not contemplate a finding of affiliation where a CDC-owned concern appears to have obtained an unfair competitive advantage in a local market, but remains competitive, but not dominant, on a national basis.

(3) Notwithstanding § 124.105(i), where a CDC merely reorganizes its ownership of a Participant in the 8(a) BD program by inserting or removing a wholly-owned business entity between the CDC and the Participant, the Participant need not request a change of ownership from SBA. The Participant must, however, notify SBA of the change within 30 days of the transfer.

(d) A CDC cannot own 51% or more of another firm which, either at the time of application or within the previous two years, has been operating in the 8(a) program under the same primary NAICS code as the applicant. For purposes of this paragraph, the same primary NAICS code means the six-digit NAICS code having the same corresponding size standard. A CDC may, however, own a Participant or an applicant that conducts or will conduct secondary business in the 8(a) BD program under the same NAICS code that a current Participant owned by the CDC operates in the 8(a) BD program as its primary SIC code.

(1) Once an applicant is admitted to the 8(a) BD program, it may not receive an 8(a) sole source contract that is a follow-on contract to an 8(a) contract that was performed immediately previously by another Participant (or former Participant) owned by the same CDC. However, a CDC-owned concern may receive a follow-on sole source 8(a) contract to a requirement that it performed through the 8(a) program.

(2) If the primary NAICS code of a Participant owned by a CDC is changed pursuant to § 124.112(e), the CDC can submit an application and qualify another firm owned by the CDC for participation in the 8(a) BD program under the NAICS code that was the previous primary NAICS code of the Participant whose primary NAICS code was changed.

(e) SBA does not deem an individual involved in the management or daily business operations of a CDC-owned concern to have used his or her individual eligibility within the meaning of § 124.108(b).

(f) An applicant concern owned by a CDC must possess reasonable prospects for success in competing in the private sector if admitted to the 8(a) BD program. An applicant concern owned by a CDC may establish potential for success by demonstrating that:

(1) It has been in business for at least two years, as evidenced by income tax returns (individual or consolidated) for each of the two previous tax years showing operating revenues in the primary industry in with the applicant is seeking 8(a) BD certification; or

(2) The individual(s) who will manage and control the daily business operations of the firm have substantial technical and management experience, the applicant has a record of successful performance on contracts from governmental or nongovernmental sources in its primary industry category, and the applicant has adequate capital to sustain its operations and carry out its business plan as a Participant; or

(3) The CDC has made a firm written commitment to support the operations of the applicant concern and it has the financial ability to do so.

(g) A CDC-owned applicant and all of its principals must have good character as set forth in § 124.108(a).

[63 FR 35739, June 30, 1998, as amended at 76 FR 8257, Feb. 11, 2011; 77 FR 28237, May 14, 2012; 81 FR 48581, July 25, 2016; 85 FR 66184, Oct. 16, 2020]
