##### § 652.9 Federal participation. #####

(a) Independent walkway projects, independent bicycle projects and nonconstruction bicycle projects shall be financed with 100 percent Federal-aid primary, secondary or urban highway funds, provided the total amount obligated for all such projects in any one State in any fiscal year does not exceed $4.5 million of Federal-aid funds or a lesser amount apportioned by the Federal Highway Administrator to avoid exceeding the annual $45 million cost limitation on these projects for all States in a fiscal year. The Federal Highway Administrator may, upon application, waive this limitation for a State for any fiscal year. This limitation also applies to projects funded under § 652.9(d). This limitation does not apply to projects of the type described in § 652.9(c). The FHWA Offices of Direct Federal Programs and Engineering will coordinate projects of the type described in § 652.9(d) to ensure that the annual cost limitations will not be exceeded.

(b) Specific eligibility requirements for Federal-aid participation in independent and nonconstruction projects are:

(1) An independent walkway project must be constructed on highway right-of-way or easement, or right-of-way acquired for this purpose. Independent walkway projects may be constructed separately or in conjunction with a Federal-aid highway construction project. Where an independent walkway project is located away from the Federal-aid highway right-of-way, it must serve pedestrians who would normally desire to use the Federal-aid route.

(2) An independent bicycle project may include the acquisition of land needed for the facility, or such projects may be constructed on existing highway right-of-way or easement acquired for this purpose. Independent bicycle projects may include construction of bicycle lanes, paths, shelters, bicycle parking facilities and other roadway and bridge work necessary to accommodate bicyclists.

(3) Nonconstruction bicycle projects must be related to the safe use of bicycles for transportation, and may include safety educational material and route maps for safe bicycle transportation purposes. Nonconstruction bicycle projects shall not include salaries for administration, law enforcement, maintenance and similar items required to operate transportation networks and programs, but may include cost of staff or consultants for development of specific nonconstruction projects.

(c) Bicycle and pedestrian accommodations may also be constructed as incidental features of highway construction projects. These incidental features may be financed with the same type of Federal-aid funds, including funds of the type described in § 652.9(d) (except Interstate construction funds) and at the same Federal share payable as a basic highway project. These accommodations are not subject to the funding limitations for independent walkway, independent bicycle and nonconstruction bicycle projects. In the case of the Interstate construction projects, Federal-aid Interstate construction funds may only be used to replace existing facilities that would be interrupted by construction of the project, or to mitigate specific environmental impacts. Interstate 4R funds provided by 23 U.S.C. 104(b)(5)(B) may be used only for incidental features. As incidental features, these accommodations must be part of a highway improvement and must be located within the right-of-way of the highway, including land acquired under 23 U.S.C. 319 (Scenic Enhancement Program).

(d) Funds authorized for Federal lands highways (forest highways, public lands highways, park roads, parkways, and Indian reservation roads which are public roads), forest development roads and trails (*i.e.*, roads or trails under the jurisdiction of the Forest Service), and public lands development roads and trails (*i.e.*, roads or trails which the Secretary of the Interior determines are of primary importance for the development, protection, administration, and utilization of public lands and resources under his/her control), may be used for independent bicycle routes and independent walkway projects. These funds may not be used for nonconstruction bicycle projects.