cfr/title-48-Federal-Acquisition-Regulations-System/chapter-1-Federal-Acquisition-Regulation/subchapter-D-Socioeconomic-Programs/part-19-Small-Business-Programs/subpart-19.15-WomenOwned-Small-Business-Program/section-19.1507.md, before:

##### 19.1507 Contract clauses. #####

Link to an amendment published at 85 FR 11767, Feb. 27, 2020.

(a) The contracting officer shall insert the clause 52.219-29, Notice of Set-Aside for, or Sole Source Award to, Economically Disadvantaged Women-owned Small Business Concerns, in solicitations and contracts for acquisitions that are set aside or reserved for, or awarded on a sole source basis to, EDWOSB concerns under 19.1505(b) or 19.1506(a). This includes multiple-award contracts when orders may be set aside for EDWOSB concerns as described in 8.405-5 and 16.505(b)(2)(i)(F).

(b) The contracting officer shall insert the clause 52.219-30, Notice of Set-Aside for, or Sole Source Award to, Women-Owned Small Business Concerns Eligible Under the Women-Owned Small Business Program, in solicitations and contracts for acquisitions that are set aside or reserved for, or awarded on a sole source basis to WOSB concerns under 19.1505(c) or 19.1506(b). This includes multiple-award contracts when orders may be set aside for WOSB concerns eligible under the WOSB Program as described in 8.405-5 and 16.505(b)(2)(i)(F).

[76 FR 18311, Apr. 1, 2016. Redesignated at 80 FR 81891, Dec. 31, 2015]

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2020-03-30 issue
Title: 7: Agriculture - Sections changed: 1
Title: 9: Animals and Animal Products - Sections changed: 3
Title: 48: Federal Acquisition Regulations System - Sections changed: 109
Title: 21: Food and Drugs - Sections changed: 2
Title: 25: Indians - Sections changed: 13
Title: 40: Protection of Environment - Sections changed: 7
Title: 50: Wildlife and Fisheries - Sections changed: 4

cfr/title-48-Federal-Acquisition-Regulations-System/chapter-1-Federal-Acquisition-Regulation/subchapter-D-Socioeconomic-Programs/part-19-Small-Business-Programs/subpart-19.15-WomenOwned-Small-Business-Program/section-19.1507.md, after:

##### 19.1507 Limitations on subcontracting and nonmanufacturer rule. #####

(a) *Limitations on subcontracting.* To be awarded a contract or order under the WOSB Program, the contractor is required to perform -

(1) For services (except construction), at least 50 percent of the cost incurred for personnel with its own employees;

(2) For supplies or products (other than a procurement from a nonmanufacturer of such supplies or products), at least 50 percent of the cost of manufacturing the supplies or products (not including the cost of materials);

(3) For general construction, at least 15 percent of the cost with its own employees (not including the cost of materials); or

(4) For construction by special trade contractors, at least 25 percent of the cost with its own employees (not including the cost of materials).

(b) *Compliance period.* An EDWOSB or WOSB contractor is required to comply with the limitation on subcontracting -

(1) For a contract that has been set aside or awarded on a sole source basis, either by the end of the base term and then by the end of each subsequent option period or by the end of the performance period for each order issued under the contract, at the contracting officer's discretion; and

(2) For an order set aside as described in 8.405-5 and 16.505(b)(2)(i)(F) or for an order issued directly to an EDWOSB or WOSB contractor in accordance with 19.504(c)(1)(ii), by the end of the performance period for the order.

(c) *Nonmanufacturer rule.* See 19.505(c) for application of the nonmanufacturer rule, inclusive of waivers and exceptions to the nonmanufacturer rule.

[85 FR 11767, Feb. 27, 2020]
