##### ยง 1484.12 What is the Cooperator program? #####

(a) Under the Foreign Market Development Cooperator (Cooperator) Program, FAS enters into project agreements with eligible nonprofit U.S. trade organizations to share the costs of certain overseas marketing and promotion activities that are intended to create, expand, or maintain foreign markets for U.S. agricultural commodities and products. FAS does not provide brand promotion assistance to Cooperators under this program.

(b) FAS enters into project agreements with those eligible nonprofit U.S. trade organizations that have the broadest possible producer representation of the commodity being promoted and gives priority to those organizations that are nationwide in membership and scope. Project agreements involve the promotion of agricultural commodities on a generic basis. Project agreements do not involve activities targeted directly toward consumers purchasing as individuals. Activities must contribute to the maintenance or growth of demand for the agricultural commodities and generally address long-term foreign import constraints and export growth opportunities by focusing on matters such as reducing infra-structural or historical market impediments; improving processing capabilities; modifying codes and standards; and identifying new markets or new applications or uses for the agricultural commodity or product in the foreign market.

(c) The Cooperator program generally operates on a reimbursement basis.

(d) FAS policy is to ensure that benefits generated by Cooperator agreements are broadly available throughout the relevant agricultural sector and no one entity gains an undue advantage or sole benefit from program activities.