##### § 31.3402(n)-1 Employees incurring no income tax liability. #####

(a) *In general.* Notwithstanding any other provision of this subpart (except to the extent a payment of wages is subject to withholding under § 31.3402(g)-1(a)(2)), an employer shall not deduct and withhold any tax under chapter 24 upon a payment of wages made to an employee, if there is in effect with respect to the payment a withholding exemption certificate furnished to the employer by the employee which certifies that -

(1) The employee incurred no liability for income tax imposed under subtitle A of the Internal Revenue Code for his preceding taxable year; and

(2) The employee anticipates that he will incur no liability for income tax imposed under subtitle A for his current taxable year.

(b) *Mandatory flat rate withholding.* To the extent wages are subject to income tax withholding under § 31.3402(g)-1(a)(2), such wages are subject to such income tax withholding regardless of whether a withholding exemption certificate under section 3402(n) and the regulations thereunder has been furnished to the employer.

(c) *Rules about withholding exemption certificates.* For rules relating to invalid withholding exemption certificates, see § 31.3402(f)(2)-1(e), and for rules relating to disregarding certain withholding exemption certificates on which an employee claims a complete exemption from withholding, see § 31.3402(f)(2)-1T(g).

(d) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate this section:

Example 1.Employee A, an unmarried, calendar-year basis taxpayer, files his income tax return for 2005 on April 10, 2006. A has adjusted gross income of $5,000 and is not liable for any income tax. He had $180 of income tax withheld during 2005. A anticipates that his gross income for 2006 will be approximately the same amount, and that he will not incur income tax liability for that year. On April 20, 2006, A commences employment and furnishes his employer a withholding exemption certificate certifying that he incurred no liability for income tax imposed under subtitle A for 2005, and that he anticipates that he will incur no liability for income tax imposed under subtitle A for 2006. A's employer shall not deduct and withhold on payments of wages made to A on or after April 20, 2006. Under § 31.3402(f)(4)-2(c), unless A furnishes a new withholding exemption certificate certifying the statements described in paragraph (a) of this section to his employer, his employer is required to deduct and withhold upon payments of wages to A made after February 15, 2007.Example 2.Assume the facts are the same as in *Example 1* except that A had been employed by his employer prior to April 20, 2006, and had furnished his employer a withholding exemption certificate prior to furnishing the withholding exemption certificate certifying the statements described in paragraph (a) of this section on April 20, 2006. Under section 3402(f)(3)(B)(i), his employer would be required to give effect to the new withholding exemption certificate no later than the beginning of the first payroll period ending (or the first payment of wages made without regard to a payroll period) on or after May 20, 2006. However, under section 3402(f)(3)(B)(ii), his employer could, if it chose, make the new withholding exemption certificate effective with respect to any payment of wages made on or after April 20, 2006, and before the effective date mandated by section 3402(f)(3)(B)(i). Under § 31.3402(f)(4)-2(c), unless A furnishes a new withholding exemption certificate certifying the statements described in § 31.3402(n)-1(a) to his employer, his employer is required to deduct and withhold upon payments of wages to A made after February 15, 2007.Example 3.Assume the facts are the same as in *Example 1* except that for 2005 A has taxable income of $8,000, income tax liability of $839, and income tax withheld of $1,195. Although A received a refund of $356 due to income tax withholding of $1,195, he may not certify on his withholding exemption certificate that he incurred no liability for income tax imposed by subtitle A for 2005.[T.D. 9276, 71 FR 42057, July 25, 2006]