##### § 31.3401(a)(13)-1 Remuneration for services performed by Peace Corps volunteers. #####

(a) Remuneration paid after September 22, 1961, for services performed as a volunteer or volunteer leader within the meaning of the Peace Corps Act (22 U.S.C. 2501) is excepted from wages, and hence is not subject to withholding, unless the remuneration is paid pursuant to section 5(c) or section 6(1) of the Peace Corps Act.

(b) Sections 5 and 6 of the Peace Corps Act (22 U.S.C. 2504, 2505) provide, in part, as follows:

Sec. 5 *Peace Corps Volunteers* [Peace Corps Act (75 Stat. 613); as amended by sec. 2(b), Act of December 13, 1963 (P.L. 88-200, 77 Stat. 359); sec. 2(a), Act of August 24, 1965, (P.L. 89-134, 79 Stat. 549); sec. 3(a), Act of July 24, 1970 (P.L. 91-352, 84 Stat. 464)]

(c) *Readjustment allowances.* Volunteers shall be entitled to receive a readjustment allowance at a rate not to exceed $75 for each month of satisfactory service as determined by the President; except that, in the cases of volunteers who have one or more minor children at the time of their entering a period of pre-enrollment training, one parent shall be entitled to receive a readjustment allowance at a rate not to exceed $125 for each month of satisfactory service as determined by the President. The readjustment allowance of each volunteer shall be payable on his return to the United States: *Provided, however,* That, under such circumstances as the President may determine, the accrued readjustment allowance, or any part thereof, may be paid to the volunteer, members of his family or others, during the period of his service, or prior to his return to the United States. In the event of the volunteer's death during the period of his service, the amount of any unpaid readjustment allowance shall be paid in accordance with the provisions of section 5582(b) of title 5. For purposes of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, a volunteer shall be deemed to be paid and to receive each amount of a readjustment allowance to which he is entitled after December 31, 1964, when such amount is transferred from funds made available under this chapter to the fund from which such readjustment allowance is payable.

*Sec. 6 Peace Corps Volunteer Leaders; number; applicability of chapter; benefits* [Peace Corps Act (75 Stat. 615), as amended by sec. 3, Act of December 13, 1963 (P.L. 88-200, 77 Stat. 360)] The President may enroll in the Peace Corps qualified citizens or nationals of the United States whose services are required for supervisory or other special duties or responsibilities in connection with programs under this chapter (referred to in this Act as “volunteer leaders”). The ratio of the total number of volunteer leaders to the total number of volunteers in service at any one time shall not exceed one to twenty-five. Except as otherwise provided in this Act, all of the provisions of this Act applicable to volunteers shall be applicable to volunteer leaders, and the term “volunteers” shall include “volunteer leaders”: *Provided, however,* That—

(1) Volunteer leaders shall be entitled to receive a readjustment allowance at a rate not to exceed $125 for each month of satisfactory service as determined by the President;

[T.D. 6654, 28 FR 5252, May 28, 1963, as amended by T.D. 7493, 42 FR 33729, July 1, 1977]