##### § 31.3401(a)(6)-1A Remuneration for services of certain nonresident alien individuals paid before January 1, 1967. #####

(a) Except in the case of certain nonresident alien individuals who are residents of Canada, Mexico, or Puerto Rico or individuals who are temporarily present in the United States as nonimmigrants under subparagraph (F) or (J) of section 101(a)(15) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101), as amended, remuneration for services performed by nonresident alien individuals does not constitute wages subject to withholding under section 3402. For withholding of income tax on remuneration paid for services performed within the United States in the case of nonresident alien individuals generally, see § 1.1441-1 and following of this chapter (Income Tax Regulations).

(b) Remuneration paid to nonresident aliens who are residents of a contiguous country (Canada or Mexico) and who enter and leave the United States at frequent intervals is not excepted from wages under section 3401(a)(6). See, however, § 31.3401(a)(7)-1, relating to remuneration paid to such nonresident alien individuals when engaged in transportation service.

(c) Remuneration paid to a nonresident alien individual for services performed in Puerto Rico for an employer (other than the United States or any agency thereof) is excepted from wages and hence is not subject to withholding, even though such alien individual is a resident of Puerto Rico at the time when such services are performed. Wages paid for services performed by a nonresident alien individual who is a resident of Puerto Rico are subject to withholding if such services are performed as an employee of the United States or any agency thereof. The place of performance of such services is immaterial, provided such alien individual is a resident of Puerto Rico at the time of performance of the services. Wages representing retirement pay for services in the Armed Forces of the United States, the Coast and Geodetic Survey, or the Public Health Service, or a disability annuity paid under the provisions of section 831 of the Foreign Service Act of 1946, as amended (22 U.S.C. 1081; 60 Stat. 1021), are subject to withholding, under the limitations specified in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of § 31.3401(a)-1, in the case of an alien resident of Puerto Rico.

(d) (1) Remuneration paid after 1961 to a nonresident alien individual who is temporarily present in the United States as a nonimmigrant under subparagraph (F) or (J) of section 101(a)(15) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101), as amended, is not excepted from wages under section 3401(a)(6) if the remuneration is exempt from withholding under section 1441(a) by reason of section 1441(c)(4)(B) and is not exempt from taxation under section 872(b)(3). See §§ 1.872-2 and 1.1441-4 of this chapter (Income Tax Regulations). A nonresident alien individual who is temporarily present in the United States as a nonimmigrant under subparagraph (J) includes an alien individual admitted to the United States as an “exchange visitor” under section 201 of the United States Information and Educational Exchange Act of 1948 (22 U.S.C. 1446).

(2) Section 101 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101), as amended, provides in part, as follows:

Sec. 101.*Definitions.* [Immigration and Nationality Act (66 Stat. 166)]

(a) As used in this chapter—\* \* \*

(15) The term “immigrant” means every alien except an alien who is within one of the following classes of nonimmigrant aliens—

(F) (i) An alien having a residence in a foreign country which he has no intention of abandoning, who is a bona fide student qualified to pursue a full course of study and who seeks to enter the United States temporarily and solely for the purpose of pursuing such a course of study at an established institution of learning or other recognized place of study in the United States, particularly designated by him and approved by the Attorney General after consultation with the Office of Education of the United States, which institution or place of study shall have agreed to report to the Attorney General the termination of attendance of each nonimmigrant student, and if any such institution of learning or place of study fails to make reports promptly the approval shall be withdrawn, and (ii) the alien spouse and minor children of any such alien if accompanying him or following to join him;

(J) An alien having a residence in a foreign country which he has no intention of abandoning who is a bona fide student, scholar, trainee, teacher, professor, research assistant, specialist, or leader in a field of specialized knowledge or skill, or other person of similar description, who is coming temporarily to the United States as a participant in a program designated by the Secretary of State, for the purpose of teaching, instructing or lecturing, studying, observing, conducting research, consulting, demonstrating special skills, or receiving training, and the alien spouse and minor children of any such alien if accompanying him or following to join him.

(e) This section shall not apply with respect to remuneration paid after December 31, 1966. For rules with respect to such remuneration see § 31.3401(a)(6)-1.

(Sec. 101. Immigration and Nationality Act, as amended by sec. 101, Act of June 27, 1952, 66 Stat. 166; sec. 109, Act of Sept. 21, 1961, 75 Stat. 534)[T.D. 6516, 25 FR 13032, Dec. 20, 1960, as amended by T.D. 6654, 28 FR 5251, May 28, 1963; T.D. 6727, 29 FR 5869, May 5, 1964; T.D. 6908, 31 FR 16775, Dec. 31, 1966]