##### § 31.3402(c)-1 Wage bracket withholding. #####

(a) *In general.* (1) The employer may elect to use the wage bracket method provided in section 3402(c) instead of the percentage method with respect to any employee. The tax computed under the wage bracket method shall be in lieu of the tax required to be deducted and withheld under section 3402(a).

(2) The amount of tax to be deducted and withheld from an employee's wages under the wage bracket method of withholding is determined based on the entry for the employee's anticipated filing status or marital status and other entries on the employee's withholding allowance certificate using the applicable wage bracket method tables and computational procedures set forth in the applicable forms, instructions, publications, and other guidance prescribed by the Commissioner issued with respect to the period in which wages are paid.

(3) For provisions relating to the treatment of wages paid under accident and health plans and wages paid other than in cash to retail commission salesmen, see paragraph (b)(8) of § 31.3401(a)-1 and § 31.3402(j)-1, respectively.

(b) *Established payroll periods, other than daily or miscellaneous, covered by wage bracket withholding tables.* The wage bracket withholding tables applicable to the employee's filing status set forth in forms, instructions, publications, and other guidance prescribed by the Commissioner for established periods other than daily or miscellaneous should be used in determining the tax to be deducted and withheld for any such period without reference to the time the employee is actually engaged in the performance of services during such payroll period.

Example 1.On June 30, 1971, employee A is paid wages for a semimonthly payroll period. A has in effect a withholding exemption certificate indicating that he claims two withholding exemptions and that he is married. A's wages are determined at the rate of $2 per hour. During a certain payroll period he works only 24 hours and earns $48. Although A worked only 24 hours during the semimonthly payroll period, the applicable wage bracket withholding table contained in Circular E for a semimonthly payroll period for an employee who is married should be used in determining the tax to be withheld. Under this table it will be found that no tax is required to be withheld from a wage payment of $48 when two withholding exemptions are claimed.Example 2.On May 14, 1971, employee B is paid wages for a weekly payroll period. B has in effect a withholding exemption certification indicating that he claims one withholding exemption and that he is single. B's wages are determined at the rate of $2 per hour. During a certain payroll period B works 18 hours and earns $36. Although B worked only 18 hours during the weekly payroll period the applicable wage bracket withholding table for a weekly payroll period for an employee who is single should be used in determining the tax to be withheld. Under this table it will be found that $0.50 is the amount of tax to be withheld from a wage payment of $36 when one withholding exemption is claimed.

(c) *Periods to which the tables for a daily or miscellaneous payroll period are applicable*—(1) *In general.* The tables applicable to a daily or miscellaneous payroll period show the tentative amount of tax to be deducted and withheld from an employee's wages for the employee's filing status for one day. Where the withholding is computed under the rules applicable to a miscellaneous payroll period, the wages and the amounts shown in the applicable table must be placed on a comparable basis. This may be accomplished by reducing the wages paid for the period to a daily basis by dividing the total wages by the number of days (including Sundays and holidays) in the period. The amount of the tax shown in the applicable table as the tax required to be withheld from the wages, as so reduced to a daily basis, should then be multiplied by the number of days (including Sundays and holidays) in the period.

(2) *Period not a payroll period.* If wages are paid for a period which is not a payroll period, the amount to be deducted and withheld under the wage bracket method shall be the amount applicable in the case of a miscellaneous payroll period containing a number of days (including Sundays and holidays) equal to the number of days (including Sundays and holidays) in the period with respect to which such wages are paid.

Example.An individual performs services for a contractor in connection with a construction project. He has in effect a withholding exemption certificate indicating that he claims two withholding exemptions and that he is married. Wages have been fixed at the rate of $36 per day, to be paid upon completion of the project. The project is completed before July 1, 1971, in 12 consecutive days, at the end of which period the individual is paid wages of $360 for 10 days' services performed during the period. Under the wage bracket method the amount to be deducted and withheld from such wages is determined by dividing the amount of the wages ($360) by the number of days in the period (12), the result being $30. The amount of tax required to be withheld is determined under the appropriate table applicable to a miscellaneous payroll period for an employee who is married. Under this table the tax required to be withheld is $47.40 (12 × $3.95).

(3) *Wages paid without regard to any period.* If wages are paid to an employee without regard to any particular period, as, for example, commissions paid to a salesman upon consummation of a sale, the amount of tax to be deducted and withheld shall be determined in the same manner as in the case of a miscellaneous payroll period containing a number of days (including Sundays and holidays) equal to the number of days (including Sundays and holidays) which have elapsed, beginning with the latest of the following days:

(i) The first day after the last payment of wages to such employee by such employer in the calendar year, or

(ii) The date on which such individual's employment with such employer began in the calendar year, or

(iii) January 1 of such calendar year, and ending with (and including) the date on which such wages are paid.

Example.On April 2, 1971, C is employed by the X Real Estate Company to sell real estate on a commission basis, commissions to be paid only upon consummation of sales. C has in effect a withholding exemption certificate indicating that he claims one withholding exemption and that he is not married. On May 22, 1971, C receives a commission of $300, his first commission since April 2, 1971. Again on June 19, 1971, C receives a commission of $420. Under the wage bracket method, the amount of tax to be deducted and withheld in respect of the commission paid on May 22, is $10, which amount is obtained by multiplying $0.20 (tax per day under the appropriate wage bracket table applicable to a daily or miscellaneous payroll period for an employee who is not married where wages are at least $6 but less than $6.25 a day) by 50 (number of days elapsed); and the amount of tax to be withheld with respect to the commission paid on June 19 is $54.60, which amount is obtained by multiplying $1.95 (tax under the appropriate wage bracket table for a daily or miscellaneous payroll period where wages are at least $15 but less than $15.50 a day) by 28 (number of days elapsed).

(d) *Period or elapsed time less than 1 week.* (1) It is the general rule that if wages are paid for a payroll period or other period of less than 1 week, the tax to be deducted and withheld under the wage bracket method shall be the amount computed for a daily payroll period, or for a miscellaneous payroll period containing the same number of days (including Sundays and holidays) as the payroll period, or other period, for which such wages are paid. In the case of wages paid without regard to any period, if the elapsed time computed as provided in paragraph (c) of this section is less than 1 week, the same rule is applicable.

Example 1.On May 14, 1971, an employee who has a daily payroll period is paid wages of $15 per day. The employee has in effect a withholding exemption certificate indicating that he claims one withholding exemption and that he is not married. Under the applicable table for a daily payroll period for an employee who is not married, the amount of tax to be deducted and withheld from each such payment of wages is $1.95.Example 2.An employee works for a certain employer on 4 consecutive days for which he is paid wages totalling $60 on July 25, 1971. The employee has in effect a withholding exemption certificate claiming two withholding exemptions and indicating that he is married. The amount of tax to be deducted and withheld under the wage bracket method is $5.60 (4 × $1.40).

(2) If the payroll period, other period or elapsed time where wages are paid without regard to any period, is less than one week, the employer may, under certain conditions, elect to deduct and withhold the tax determined by the application of the wage table for a weekly payroll period to the aggregate of the wages paid to the employee during the calendar week. The election to use the weekly wage table in such cases is subject to the limitations and conditions prescribed in Circular E with respect to employers using the percentage method in similar cases.

(3) As used in this paragraph the term “calendar week” means a period of seven consecutive days beginning with Sunday and ending with Saturday.

(e) *Rounding off of wage payment.* In determining the amount to be deducted and withheld under the wage bracket method the wages may, at the election of the employer, be computed to the nearest dollar, provided such wages are in excess of the highest wage bracket of the applicable table. For the purpose of the computation to the nearest dollar, the payment of a fractional part of a dollar shall be disregarded unless it amounts to one-half dollar or more, in which case it shall be increased to $1.00. Thus, if the payroll period of an employee is weekly and the wage payment of such employee is $255.49, the employer may compute the tax on the excess over $200 as if the excess were $55 instead of $55.49. If the weekly wage payment is $255.50, the employer may, in computing the tax, consider the excess over $200 to be $56 instead of $55.50.

(f) *Applicability date.* The provisions of this section apply on and after October 6, 2020. Taxpayers may choose to apply this section on or after January 1, 2020 and before October 6, 2020. For rules that apply before October 6, 2020, see 26 CFR part 31, revised as of April 1, 2020.

[T.D. 6516, 25 FR 13032, Dec. 20, 1960, as amended by T.D. 6860, 30 FR 13942, Nov. 4, 1965; T.D. 7115, 36 FR 9215, May 21, 1971; T.D. 7888, 48 FR 17588, Apr. 25, 1983; T.D. 7915, 48 FR 44073, Sept. 27, 1983; T.D. 9924, 85 FR 63027, Oct. 6, 2020]