##### § 31.3402(f)(3)-1 When withholding exemption certificate takes effect. #####

(a) A withholding exemption certificate furnished the employer in any case in which no previous withholding exemption certificate is in effect with such employer, shall take effect as of the beginning of the first payroll period ending, or the first payment of wages made without regard to a payroll period, on or after the date on which such certificate is so furnished.

(b) A withholding exemption certificate furnished the employer in any case in which a previous withholding exemption certificate is in effect with such employer shall, except as hereinafter provided, take effect with respect to the first payment of wages made on or after the first status determination date which occurs at least 30 days after the date on which such certificate is so furnished. However, at the election of the employer, except as hereinafter provided, such certificate may be made effective with respect to any payment of wages made on or after the date on which such certificate is so furnished and before such status determination date.

(c) A withholding exemption certificate furnished the employer pursuant to section 3402(f)(2)(C) (see paragraph (c) of § 31.3402(f)(2)-1 or paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of § 31.3402(1)-1) which effects a change for the next calendar year, shall not take effect, and may not be made effective, with respect to the calendar year in which the certificate is furnished. A withholding exemption certificate furnished the employer by an employee who determines his income tax liability on a basis other than a calendar- year basis, as required by paragraph (b)(4) of § 31.3402(f)(2)-1, which effects a change for the employee's next taxable year, shall not take effect, and may not be made effective, with respect to the taxable year of the employee in which the certificate is furnished.

(d) For purposes of this section, the term “status determination date” means January 1, May 1, July 1, and October 1 of each year.

(Secs. 3402(i) and (m) and 7805 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 (26 U.S.C. 3402 (i) and (m), 95 Stat. 172, 184; 26 U.S.C. 7805, 68A Stat. 917))[T.D. 6516, 25 FR 13106, Dec. 20, 1960, as amended by T.D. 7048, 35 FR 10291, June 24, 1970; T.D. 7065, 35 FR 16539, Oct. 23, 1970; T.D. 7115, 36 FR 9234, May 21, 1971; T.D. 7915, 48 FR 44073, Sept. 27, 1983]