##### § 31.3402(f)(1)-1 Withholding exemptions. #####

(a) *In general.* (1) Except as otherwise provided in section 3402(f)(6) (see § 31.3402(f)(6)-1), an employee receiving wages shall on any day be entitled to withholding exemptions as provided in section 3402(f)(1). In order to receive the benefit of such exemptions, the employee must file with his employer a withholding exemption certificate as provided in section 3402(f)(2). See § 31.3402(f)(2)-1.

(2) The number of exemptions to which an employee is entitled on any day depends upon his status as single or married, upon his status as to old age and blindness, upon the number of his dependents, upon the number of exemptions claimed by his spouse (if he is married), and upon the number of withholding allowances to which he is entitled under section 3402(m).

(b) *Withholding exemptions to which an employee is entitled in respect of himself.* An employee is entitled to one withholding exemption for himself. An employee shall on any day be entitled to an additional withholding exemption for himself if he will have attained the age of 65 before the close of his taxable year which begins in, or with, the calendar year in which such day falls. If the employee is blind, he may claim an additional withholding exemption for blindness. For purposes of claiming a withholding exemption for blindness, an individual shall be considered blind only if his central visual acuity does not exceed 20/200 in the better eye with correcting lenses or if his visual acuity is greater than 20/200 but is accompanied by a limitation in the fields of vision such that the widest diameter of the visual field subtends an angle no greater than 20 degrees. For definition of the term “blindness”, see section 151(d)(3). An employee may also be entitled under section 3402(m) to withholding exemptions with respect to withholding allowances (see § 31.3402(m)-1).

(c) *Withholding exemptions to which an employee is entitled in respect to his spouse.* (1) A married employee, whose spouse is an employee receiving wages, is entitled to claim any withholding exemption to which his spouse is entitled under paragraph (b) of this section, unless the spouse has in effect a withholding exemption certificate claiming such withholding exemption. A married employee, whose spouse is not an employee receiving wages, is entitled to claim any withholding exemption to which his spouse would be entitled under paragraph (b) of this section if the spouse were an employee receiving wages.

Example 1.Assume that both the husband and wife have attained the age of 65 and are employees receiving wages. Each spouse is entitled under paragraph (b) of this section to claim 2 withholding exemptions in respect of himself or herself. Either spouse may claim, in addition to the withholding exemptions to which he or she is entitled in respect of himself or herself, any withholding exemption to which the other spouse is entitled under such paragraph (b) of this section but does not claim on a withholding exemption certificate.Example 2.Assume the same facts as in Example 1 except that only the husband is an employee receiving wages. The husband is entitled to claim 4 withholding exemptions, that is, the 2 withholding exemptions to which he is entitled in respect of himself and the 2 withholding exemptions to which his spouse would be entitled under paragraph (b) of this section if she were an employee receiving wages.

(2) In determining the number of withholding exemptions to which an employee is entitled for himself and his spouse on any day, the employee's status as a single person or a married person and, if married, whether a withholding exemption is claimed by his spouse, shall be determined as of such day. However, in the case of an employee whose spouse dies in the taxable year of the employee which begins in, or with, the calendar year in which the spouse dies, any withholding exemption which would be allowable to the employee in respect of such spouse, if living and not an employee receiving wages, may be claimed by the employee for that portion of the calendar year which occurs after his spouse's death. For provisions applicable in the case of an employee whose taxable year is not a calendar year, and whose spouse dies in that portion of the calendar year which precedes the first day of the taxable year of the employee which begins in the calendar year, see paragraph (b) of § 31.3402(f)(2)-1. An employee legally separated from his spouse under a decree of divorce or of separate maintenance or an employee who is a surviving spouse (as defined in section 2 and the regulations thereunder) shall not be entitled to any withholding exemptions in respect of his spouse.

(d) *Withholding exemptions to which an employee is entitled in respect of dependents.* Subject to the limitations stated in this paragraph, an employee shall be entitled on any day to a withholding exemption for each individual who may reasonably be expected to be his dependent for his taxable year beginning in, or with, the calendar year in which such day falls. For purposes of the withholding exemption for an individual who may reasonably be expected to be a dependent, the following rules shall apply:

(1) The determination that an individual may or may not reasonably be expected to be a dependent shall be made on the basis of facts existing at the beginning of the day for which a withholding exemption for such individual is to be claimed. The individual in respect of whom an exemption is claimed by an employee must, on the day in question, be in existence and be within one of the categories listed in section 152(a), which defines the term “dependent”. However, a withholding exemption for a dependent who dies continues for the portion of the calendar year which occurs after the dependent's death, except that, in the case of an employee whose taxable year is not a calendar year, the withholding exemption does not continue for a dependent, within the meaning of section 152(a) (9) or (10), whose death occurs before the first day of the employee's taxable year beginning in the calendar year of death.

(2) The determination that an individual may or may not reasonably be expected to be a dependent shall be made for the taxable year of the employee in respect of which amounts deducted and withheld in the calendar year in which the day in question falls are allowed as a credit. In general, amounts deducted and withheld during any calendar year are allowed as a credit against the tax imposed by chapter 1 of the Code for the taxable year which begins in, or with, such calendar year. Thus, in order for an employee to be able to claim for a calendar year a withholding exemption with respect to a particular individual as a dependent there must be a reasonable expectation that the employee will be allowed an exemption with respect to such individual under section 151(e) for his taxable year which begins in, or with, such calendar year.

(3) For the employee to be entitled on any day of the calendar year to a withholding exemption for an individual as a dependent, such individual must on such day -

(i) Be an individual referred to in one of the numbered paragraphs in section 152(a),

(ii) Reasonably be expected to receive over one-half of his support, within the meaning of section 152, from the employee in the calendar year, and

(iii) Either (*a*) reasonably be expected to have gross income of less than the amount determined pursuant to § 1.151-2 of this chapter (Income Tax Regulations) applicable to the calendar year in which the taxable year of the taxpayer begins, or (*b*) be a child (son, stepson, daughter, stepdaughter, adopted son, or adopted daughter) of the employee who (*1*) will not have attained the age of 19 at the close of the calendar year or (*2*) is a student as defined in section 151.

(4) An employee is not entitled to claim a withholding exemption for an individual otherwise reasonably expected to be a dependent of the employee if such individual is not a citizen of the United States, unless such individual (i) is at any time during the calendar year a resident of the United States (including, in regard to wages paid after February 28, 1979, and individual treated as a resident under section 6013 (g) or (h)) Canada, Mexico, the Canal Zone, or the Republic of Panama, or (ii) is a child of the employee born to him, or legally adopted by him, in the Philippine Islands before January 1, 1956, and the child is a resident of the Republic of the Philippines, and the employee was a member of the Armed Forces of the United States at the time the child was born to him or legally adopted by him.

(e) *Additional withholding exemption to which an employee is entitled in respect of the standard deduction.* After November 30, 1986, an employee is entitled to one additional withholding exemption unless:

(1) The employee is married (as determined under section 143) and the employee's spouse is an employee receiving wages subject to withholding, or

(2) The employee has withholding exemption certificates in effect with respect to more than one employer.

These restrictions do not apply if the combined wages of the employee and the spouse (if any) from other than one employer is less than the amount specified in the instructions to Form W-4 or W-4A (Employee's Withholding Allowance Certificate).[T.D. 6516, 25 FR 13032, Dec. 20, 1960, as amended by T.D. 6654, 28 FR 5252, May 28, 1963; T.D. 7065, 35 FR 16539, Oct. 23, 1970; T.D. 7114, 36 FR 9020, May 18, 1971; T.D. 7115, 36 FR 9234, May 21, 1971; T.D. 7670, 45 FR 6932, Jan. 31, 1980; T.D. 7915, 48 FR 44073, Sept. 27, 1983; T.D. 8164, 52 FR 45633, Dec. 1, 1987]