##### § 5.6 Fees. #####

Link to an amendment published at 89 FR 213, Jan. 2, 2024.

(a)(1) Fees will be charged for copies of records which are furnished to a requester under this part and for the staff time spent in locating and reproducing such records. The fees to be levied for services rendered under this part shall not exceed the Commission's direct cost of processing requests for those records computed on the basis of the actual number of copies produced and the staff time expended in fulfilling the particular request, in accordance with the following schedule of standard fees:

Photocopying from microfilm reader-printer—$.15 per pagePhotocopying from photocopying machines—$.05 per pagePaper copies from microfilm—Paper Print Machine—$.05 per frame/pageReels of MicrofilmDaily film (partial or complete roll)—$2.85 per rollOther film (partial or complete roll)—$5.00 per rollPublications: (new or not from stocks available)Cost of photocopying (reproducing) document—$.05 per pageCost of binding document—$.30 per inchPlus cost of staff research time after first1/2 hour (see Research Time)Publications: (available stock)If available from stock on hand, cost is based on previously calculated cost as stated in the publication (based on actual cost per copy, including reproduction and binding).Computer Tapes:Cost ($.0006 per Computer Resource Unit Utilized—CRU) to process the request plus the cost of the computer tape ($25) and professional staff time (see Research Time). The cost varies based upon request.Computer Indexes:No charge for 20 or fewer requests for computer indexes, except for a name search as described below.C Index—Committee Index of Disclosure Documents—No charge for requests of 20 or fewer committee ID numbers. Requests for more than 20 ID numbers will cost $.05 for each ID number requested.E Index (Parts 1-4)—Candidate Index of Supporting Documents—No charge for requests of 20 or fewer candidate ID numbers. Requests for more than 20 ID numbers will cost $.10 for each ID number requested.D Index—Committee Index or Candidates Supported/Opposed—No charge for requests of 20 or fewer committee ID numbers. Requests for more than 20 ID numbers will cost $.30 for each committee ID number requested.E Index (Complete)—Candidate Index of Supporting Documents—No charge for requests of 20 or fewer committee ID numbers. Requests for more than 20 ID numbers will cost $2.00 for each candidate ID number requested.G Index—Selected List of Receipts and Expenditures—No charge for requests of 20 or fewer committee ID numbers. Requests for more than 20 ID numbers will cost $2.00 for each ID number requested.Other computer index requests for more than 20 ID numbers will cost $.0006 per CRU (Computer Resource Unit) utilized.Name Search—A computer search of an entire individual contributor file for contributions made by a particular individual or individuals will cost $.0006 per CRU (Computer Resource Unit) utilized.Research Time/Photocopying TimeClerical: First1/2 hour is free; remaining time costs $4.50 per each half hour (agency average of staff below a GS-11) for each request.Professional: First1/2 hour is free; remaining time costs $12.40 per each half hour (agency average of staff at GS-11 and above) for each request.Other ChargesCertification of a Document: $7.35 per quarter hour.Transcripts of Commission meetings not previously transcribed: $7.50 per half hour (equivalent of a GS-11 executive secretary).

(2) Upon receipt of any request for the production of computer tape or microfilm, the Commission will advise the requester of the identity of the private contractor who will perform the duplication services. The fee for the production of computer tape or microfilm shall be made payable to that private contractor and shall be fowarded to the Commission.

(b) Commission publications for which fees will be charged under 11 CFR 5.6(a) include, but are not limited to, the following:

Advisory Opinion IndexReport on Financial ActivityFinancial Control and Compliance ManualMUR IndexGuideline for Presentation in Good OrderOffice Account Index

(c) In the event the anticipated fees for all pending requests from the same requester exceed $25.00, records will not be searched, nor copies furnished, until the requester pays, or makes acceptable arrangements to pay, the total amount due.

Similarly, if the records requested require the production of microfilm or of computer tapes, the Commission will not instruct its contractor to duplicate the records until the requester has submitted payment as directed or has made acceptable arrangements to pay the total amount due. If any fee is not precisely ascertainable, an estimate will be made by the Commission and the requester will be required to forward the fee so estimated. In the event any advance payment differs from the actual fee, an appropriate adjustment will be made at the time the copies are made available by the Commission.

(d) The Commission may reduce or waive payments of fees hereunder if it determines that such waiver or reduction is in the public interest because the furnishing of the requested information to the particular requester involved can be considered as primarily benefiting the general public as opposed to primarily benefiting the person or organization requesting the information.

[49 FR 30460, July 31, 1984, as amended at 52 FR 39214, Oct. 21, 1987]