##### ยง 120.1860 How will the SISMBD Loan be disbursed? #####

(a) Loan proceeds will be disbursed to the FTA by SBA to be applied to the purchase price for the Guaranteed Portions or Certificates being purchased by the SISMBD. Disbursement to the FTA is contingent upon receipt by SBA, the FTA or SBA's settlement agent or custodian of the Guaranteed Portions or Certificates being purchased and any other Collateral required by SBA and verification of the required first lien position. SBA will advance the principal amount or the purchase price of the Guaranteed Portion or the Certificate, whichever is less. Thus, if the loan is purchased at a discount to the principal balance, SBA will not advance more than the purchase price.

(b) Provided an SISMBD has executed all required loan documents, when an SISMBD requests an advance under its SISMBD Loan, it will submit a written Loan Advance Request Form to the FTA and SBA along with the SBA Form 1086 or 1088 for processing. The FTA will notify SBA that a particular SISMBD requests an advance of a certain amount of funds on a specific settlement date to purchase: a Guaranteed Portion which will be evidenced by an Individual Certificate, a Pool Certificate, or an existing Individual Certificate. Provided that the SISMBD has met all of the terms and conditions of the Loan Agreements, related documents, and these regulations, and is not in default under the loan documents, on the settlement date for the SBA Secondary Market transaction, SBA will wire the funds to the FTA. The FTA will use loan proceeds and any Premium payment from the SISMBD to pay the SBA Lender or Registered Holder the purchase price.

(c) The SISMBD must identify the SBA Lender or Registered Holder expected to deliver to SBA or its settlement agent the Guaranteed Portions or Certificates that are being purchased with SISMBD Loan proceeds, and upon delivery the Guaranteed Portions or Certificates will become Collateral for the SISMBD Loan.

(d) On the SBA Secondary Market transaction settlement date, the SBA Lender or Registered Holder will deliver the purchased Guaranteed Portion or Certificate to the FTA or SBA's settlement agent. The FTA or SBA's settlement agent will use loan proceeds and any Premium payment from SISMBD to pay the SBA Lender or the Registered Holder the purchase price upon delivery of all Guaranteed Portions or Certificates that collateralize the SISMBD Loan to the FTA or SBA's settlement agent and the Guaranteed Portions or Certificates will be placed in a custodial account.

(e) Upon settlement the FTA, SBA, SBA's settlement agent and the administrator of the custodial account will register the loan advance and collateral pledge on their respective books and records.