##### § 644.333 Screening for defense needs. #####

Real property which becomes excess to the needs of any element of the Army or Air Force will be screened against requirements of other Department of Defense (DOD) agencies and the U.S. Coast Guard in order to promote and obtain the most efficient and complete utilization of real property before disposing of it.

(a) *Procedure for screening Army military property.* Screening for defense requirements with respect to base closures publicly announced by the Secretary of Defense or Secretary of the Army which result in excessing of real property will not be accomplished unless directed by HQDA (DAEN-ZCI) Washington DC 20314. Instructions to screen will be included in the disposal directive transmitted to the DE when such action is desired. In the absence of such instructions, it is presumed that DOD has negatively evaluated all possible requirements of DOD agencies before making the public announcement.

(1) *Fee-owned land.* Screening is required in all other cases unless specifically directed otherwise. Property will be screened simultaneously against other Army requirements, and for Navy, Air Force, Coast Guard, and Defense agency requirements. The property should also be screened against known Department of the Army Civil Works requirements.

(i) The DE will dispatch a screening message promptly upon receipt of an excess directive or recommendation pursuant to AR 405-90. The sample screening message in ER 405-1-12 at Figure 11-1, or a letter similar in form and content will be used without substantial deviation.

(ii) All action addressees and parties listed for information on Figure 11-1 in ER 405-1-12 will be included, except that Air Force real property in Hawaii will be screened with the Commander-in-Chief, Pacific Air Forces, in lieu of HQ, USAF. The appropriate major Army command, when not the using command, will be listed as an action addressee.

(iii) In no case will screening be deferred unless authorized by DAEN-REM. At the expiration of the screening period (normally 30 days) a report of results will be forwarded and subsequent action initiated as provided in paragraph (e) of this section.

(iv) For certain cases, most frequently in connection with base realignments or Executive Order 11954 surveys, accelerated screening procedures are set out in AR 405-90.

(2) *Capehart and Wherry Housing Projects.* Due to the complicated financial arrangements under which such projects are constructed and operated, the disposal thereof, whether separately or as a part of a larger installation, requires careful study. In order to assure maximum time in which to discover and evaluate problems arising in each of such cases, the DE will notify HQDA (DAEN-REM) Washington DC 20314, by teletype, immediately upon receipt of information of an installation commander's recommendation of excess involving Capehart and acquired Wherry housing projects. Included with this notice will be advice on the source of utilities and any problems of which the DE may be aware.

(b) *Leaseholds, buildings and improvements.* Leaseholds, buildings, and other improvements will not be screened formally within the Department of the Army (DA). When such property is made available or disposal under AR 405-90 and §§ 644.326 through 644.329, it will be screened by the responsible DE with the Air Force, Coast Guard, and Navy and against known Army military and civil works requirements within the Division. Screening with the Air Force of leaseholds having an annual rental in excess of $50,000 will be addressed to HQ, USAF. Other Air Force screening under this subparagraph will be with local Air Force installations. Screening with the Navy will be addressed to the appropriate naval district. Screening with the Coast Guard and Defense agencies will be with the local representatives of those agencies. Property under the jurisdiction of GSA which has been assigned to the DA or Department of the Air Force (DAF) for use is not subject to this screening procedure, but the DE will determine whether such property would serve any current unfulfilled real property acquisition directives pending in his office.

(1) *Family housing leases.* Family housing leases under authority of Section 515, Pub. L. 84-161, 69 Stat. 352, as amended and extended, will be terminated promptly upon determination that the property is excess to the needs of the using command, without screening for other requirements.

(2) *Limit screening.* Screening which would serve no useful purpose is to be avoided. Screening of buildings and improvements on sites needed for approved construction should be limited as construction schedules require. The DE will take timely action to minimize additional cost and rental payments due to screening and may, at his discretion, limit screening of leaseholds and improvements to be removed from the site to informal notices to appropriate local Defense agencies. The DEs are authorized to waive screening of nonassignable or short term interests in real property when such screening would serve no useful purpose.

(3) *Notice of restoration requirements.* All screening notices of leaseholds and improvements available for off-site removal will indicate that transferees will be required to perform necessary site restoration as a prerequisite to obtaining transfer and will reflect the extent of restoration required.

(c) *Procedure for screening civil works property.* Buildings and improvements, leaseholds, and fee-owned land that have been determined excess to civil works requirements in accordance with this part will be screened with the appropriate major Army and local service commanders, and with the Navy, Air Force, Coast Guard, and Defense agencies. (GSA property assigned to the Army for use is not subject to formal screening hereunder but will be screened against known acquisition directives or requirements in the DE office.) Except to the extent that DEs determine they are inappropriate, screening procedures for civil works property will be the same as for Army military property.

(d) *Screening of Air Force property.* HQ, USAF and the major Air Force commands screen Air Force real property before authorizing disposal action by the Corps of Engineers in accordance with AFR 87-4. DEs will act on requests for disposal action on buildings and improvements and leased property received directly from major Air Force commands which conform with AFR 87-4. Disposal directives on fee-owned land and easements will be issued by HQ, USAF and referred through DAEN-REM.

(e) *Report on screening and related actions.* Immediately following the screening of fee-owned land, the DE will forward to DAEN-REM a report of the results of the screening (with comments and recommendations where a further Army or other Defense requirement is indicated). This report will serve as one of the basis of a determination whether the property is excess to the rquirements of the DOD. Upon dispatch of the screening report, the DE will proceed with further action pursuant to §§ 644.340 through 644.347 and §§ 644.385 through 644.389. No report on screening of civil works property is required unless there is a request for transfer or reassignment of the property screened.

(f) *Property with an estimated value of $50,000 or less.* If the property has an estimated value of $50,000 or less, the determination that the property is excess to Army requirements will be made by the Department of the Army without referral to DOD, and the Chief of Engineers will direct the DE accordingly. Upon receipt of this disposal directive, prompt action will be taken to report the property to GSA or take other disposal action as appropriate.

(g) *Estimated value in excess of $50,000.* If military property has an estimated value in excess of $50,000, it must be reported to the Armed Services Committees of Congress pursuant to title 10, United States Code, section 2662. The final Army determination of excess and recommendations to the Assistant Secretary of Defense (MRA&L) to approve the proposed disposal report to the Armed Services Committees by the Chief of Engineers, utilizing Real Estate Disposal Report, ENG Form 2187R, are combined in a single action. The Chief of Engineers will advise of DOD approval of the proposed disposal when made. Upon receipt of this information responsible Division and District Engineers will furnish GSA a preliminary report of excess. The preliminary report of excess will be finalized, upon receipt of instructions from the Chief of Engineers. This procedure is also applicable to Air Force disposals. If the preliminary report of excess is sufficiently complete and accurate, it may be finalized by letter or simple statement on Standard Form 118, Report of Excess Real Property.

(h) *Date of excess for reporting purposes.* From the above, it will be noted that where property has an estimated value in excess of $100,000, the determination that the property is excess to the requirements of the Department of the Army is, in effect, made concurrently with the determination that the property is excess to the requirements of the DOD, or is approved for transfer to another military department. For all practical purposes, these determinations are best evidenced by the Assistant Secretary of Defense's approval of the proposed disposal. The date of approval may be used as the date the property was determined excess to Army requirements for reporting purposes.