##### ยง 13.10 Distribution of money in lieu of fractional shares. #####

(a) *In general.* (1) Under the general rule of section 305, as amended by section 421(a) of the Tax Reform Act of 1969, gross income does not include the amount of any distribution of the stock (or rights to acquire the stock) of a corporation made by such corporation to its shareholders with respect to its stock. Under an exception to the general rule, a distribution by a corporation of its stock or rights to acquire its stock is treated as a distribution of property to which section 301 applies if the distribution (or a series of distributions of which such distribution is one) has the result of (i) the receipt of money or other property by some shareholders, and (ii) an increase in the proportionate interests of other shareholders in the assets or earnings and profits of the corporation. Also, the Secretary or his delegate is directed to prescribe regulations under which a redemption which is treated as a distribution to which section 301 applies, or any other transaction having a similar effect on the interest of any shareholder, shall be treated as a distribution with respect to any shareholder whose proportionate interest in the assets or earnings and profits of the corporation is increased by such redemption or transaction.

(2) The general rule, and not the exception, applies in the case where cash is distributed in lieu of fractional shares to which the shareholders would otherwise be entitled, provided the purpose in distributing the cash is to save the distributing corporation the trouble, expense, and inconvenience of issuing and transferring fractional shares (or scrip representing fractional shares), or issuing full shares representing the sum of fractional shares, and not to give any particular group of shareholders an increased interest in the assets or earnings and profits of the corporation.

(b) *Illustration.* The application of paragraph (a) of this section may be illustrated by the following example:

Example.Corporation X is a large corporation whose stock is widely held by the public, no one shareholder owning more than 10 percent of the outstanding stock. The stock is listed on a recognized exchange and is currently selling at less than $75 per share. During the year the corporation pays a 3-percent stock dividend. Cash is paid to each shareholder in lieu of a fractional share to which he would otherwise be entitled. The distribution of cash in lieu of fractional shares is not intended to give any particular group of shareholders an increased interest in the assets or earnings and profits of the corporation, but is intended to save the corporation the trouble, expense, and inconvenience of issuing and transferring scrip representing fractional shares. The general rule, and not the exception, applies in this situation.(Sec. 305(c), 83 Stat. 614; 26 U.S.C. 305(c))[T.D. 7039, 35 FR 7012, May 2, 1970]