##### ยง 3162.6 Well and facility identification. #####

Link to an amendment published at 81 FR 81420, November 17, 2016.

(a) Every well within a Federal or Indian lease or supervised agreement shall have a well indentification sign. All signs shall be maintained in a legible condition.

(b) For wells located on Federal and Indian lands, the operator shall properly identify, by a sign in a conspicuous place, each well, other than those permanently abandoned. The well sign shall include the well number, the name of the operator, the lease serial number, the surveyed location (the quarter-quarter section, section, township and range or other authorized survey designation acceptable to the authorized officer; such as metes and bounds). When approved by the authorized officer, individual well signs may display only a unique well name and number. When specifically requested by the authorized officer, the sign shall include the unit or communitization name or number. The authorized officer may also require the sign to include the name of the Indian allottee lessor(s) preceding the lease serial number. In all cases, individual well signs in place on the effective date of this rulemaking which do not have the unit or communitization agreement number or do not have quarter-quarter identification will satisfy these requirements until such time as the sign is replaced. All new signs shall have identification as above, including quarter-quarter section.

(c) All facilities at which Federal or Indian oil is stored shall be clearly identified with a sign that contains the name of the operator, the lease serial number or communitization or unit agreement identification number, as appropriate, and in public land states, the quarter-quarter section, township, and range. On Indian leases, the sign also shall include the name of the appropriate Tribe and whether the lease is tribal or allotted. For situations of 1 tank battery servicing 1 well in the same location, the requirements of this paragraph and paragraph (b) of this section may be met by 1 sign as long as it includes the information required by both paragraphs. In addition, each storage tank shall be clearly identified by a unique number. All identification shall be maintained in legible condition and shall be clearly apparent to any person at or approaching the sales or transportation point. With regard to the quarter-quarter designation and the unique tank number, any such designation established by state law or regulation shall satisfy this requirement.

(d) All abandoned wells shall be marked with a permanent monument containing the information in paragraph (b) of this section. The requirement for a permanent monument may be waived in writing by the authorized officer.

[52 FR 5391, Feb. 20, 1987, as amended at 53 FR 17363, May 16, 1988]