##### ยง 644.137 Maneuver agreements. #####

Joint training exercises or maneuvers are conducted by elements of the Department of Defense. Land use requirements vary with the exercise objectives and the force elements which participate. The Corps participates in the planning and acquires rights to use land and other facilities for Department of the Army exercises. The current Memorandum of Understanding by Department of the Army, United States Readiness Command (USCINCRED), and United States Army Forces, Readiness Command (USCINCARRED) on acquisition of maneuver rights for United States Readiness Command (USREDCOM) Joint Training exercises is included as Figure 5-13 in ER 405-1-12. This Memorandum covers timing of requests for preliminary surveys, real estate studies, funding and acquisition of maneuver rights. The Corps also responds to requests from other Department of Defense commands for maneuver rights, and the same procedure is envisioned although no Memoranda of Understanding have been entered into. Upon receipt of a request for real estate services, an estimate of the funds required for the report should be forwarded to the using command.

(a) *Procedures.* The appropriate Division or District Engineer will be responsible for negotiating maneuver agreements and short-term leases and, after the maneuver is completed, will be responsible for negotiating restoration settlements and/or releases, as appropriate. Real estate acquisition will be in the form of agreements with landowners, granting the right to conduct maneuvers at a given time, or periodically. Short-term leases for exclusive use may also be acquired for special areas (such as headquarters areas, radio relay sites, base camp sites, field hospital sites and supply dumps), and buildings needed for warehouses, ordnance shops and similar purposes directly related to the maneuver. Permits will be obtained to cover the use of lands under the jurisdiction of another Government department or agency.

(b) *Claims and restoration.* Notwithstanding the assignment of restoration responsibility, understanding may be reached with the maneuver director at field level whereby the command will assume responsibility for settlement of real estate damages using claim funds. However, in instances where the damage exceeds the monetary claims jurisdiction of the Army Commander pursuant to AR 27-20 and is cognizable as a contractual obligation under the maneuver permit, settlement will be accomplished by the Division or District Engineer either by supplement to the permit or by processing a claim under AR 405-15 (see ยง 552.16 of this chapter) since the Division or District Engineer can usually accomplish settlements more quickly for claims in excess of that amount. Therefore, it should be suggested to the maneuver director that all claims, cognizable as a contractual obligation, in excess of his monetary claims jurisdiction be handled by the Division or District Engineer. Funds appropriated for field exercises and maneuvers are allotted to Army Commanders and include administrative costs. The reporting requirements included in Figure 5-13 in ER 405-1-12 will be established by the Chief of Engineers upon receipt of a specific request from the using command to acquire maneuver rights.