##### § 1091.115 Change of time limits and confidentiality of proceedings. #####

(a) *Change of time limits.* Except as otherwise provided by law, the Associate Director until the issuance of a recommended determination, or the Director at any time thereafter, at their respective discretion, may extend the time limits prescribed by this part or by any notice or order issued pursuant to this part. Any request for an extension of a time limit by a respondent must be for good cause shown, in writing, and filed with the Associate Director or Director, as appropriate. The mere filing of a written request for an extension does not alleviate a respondent of the obligation to meet an applicable time limit absent written confirmation that an extension has been granted.

(b) *No substantive rights.* Deadlines for action by the initiating official, Associate Director, or the Director established in this part confer no substantive rights on respondents.

(c) *Confidentiality* - (1) *General rule.* In connection with a proceeding under this part, including a petition for termination under § 1091.113, all documents, records or other items submitted by a respondent to the Bureau, all documents prepared by, or on behalf of, or for the use of the Bureau, and any communications between the Bureau and a person, shall be deemed confidential supervisory information under 12 CFR 1070.2(i)(1). However, this paragraph does not apply to the version of a document that is released on the Bureau's website under paragraph (c)(2).

(2) *Publication of final decisions and orders by the Director.* The Director will make a determination regarding whether a decision or order under § 1091.103(b)(2), § 1091.109(a), or § 1091.113(e) will be publicly released on the Bureau's website, in whole or in part. The respondent may file a submission regarding that issue, within seven days after service of the decision or order. The Director may also decide that the Director's determination regarding public release will itself be released on the website, in whole or in part. Section 1091.109(c) is not applicable to determinations under this paragraph.

[78 FR 40375, July 3, 2013, as amended at 87 FR 25398, Apr. 29, 2022]