##### § 49.4264(c)-1 Special rule for the payment of tax. #####

(a) *Rule* - (1) *In general.* Except as provided in subparagraph (2) of this paragraph, when any tax imposed by section 4261 is not paid at the time payment for the transportation is made, then to the extent that such tax is not collected under any other provision of law, such tax shall be paid by the person paying for the transportation or by the person using the transportation. The provisions of section 4264(c) apply where the amount paid for transportation is (i) subject to tax at the time such payment is made, but no tax is paid at that time, or (ii) not subject to tax at the time such payment is made, but because of some subsequent event the payment becomes subject to tax. The payment of tax shall be made to the district director of internal revenue for the district in which the taxpayer resides, or to the person from whom the transportation was purchased, within 30 days after whichever of the following first occurs: (*a*) The rights to the transportation expire, or (*b*) the transportation becomes subject to tax. Such payment shall be accompanied with an explanation that it is being made in accordance with section 4264(c).

(2) *Transportation no longer qualifying as uninterrupted international air transportation.* In the case of a payment for transportation beginning after November 15, 1962, which qualifies as “uninterrupted international air transportation” within the meaning of section 4262(c)(3) and paragraph (c) of § 49.4262(c)-1 on the date such payment was made and which because of some subsequent event ceases to be uninterrupted international air transportation, to the extent that the tax due is not collected under any other provision of law, such tax shall be paid by the person paying for the transportation or by the person using the transportation. The payment of the tax shall be made to the air carrier which provides the next continuing portion of the transportation following the occurrence of the event which caused the transportation to cease to be uninterrupted international air transportation and such carrier shall collect the tax at the time the flight is rescheduled or before furnishing the continuing transportation to the passenger, whichever is earlier, unless the carrier has evidence, in writing, that the tax has already been paid to (i) a district director, or (ii) the person to whom the payment for the international air transportation was originally made, or (iii) any person furnishing any portion of such transportation. The provisions of this subparagraph with respect to the responsibility of the continuing carrier to collect the tax due are applicable only if the passenger uses his original ticket or is issued a substitute therefor for the purpose of continuing his transportation. Such provisions are not applicable if the passenger purchases a new ticket to continue his transportation.

(b) *Relationship to other sections.* Section 4264(c) and this section are not intended in any way to relieve the person receiving the payment for taxable transportation of persons from his duty under section 4291 of collecting the tax at the time such payment is received by him. The provisions of section 4264(c) and this section also do not apply in any case where the tax is collected in the manner provided in section 4264 (a) or (b) or in other provisions of law.

(c) *Illustrations.* The provisions of this section may be illustrated by the following examples:

Example (1).A purchases in New York a round-trip ticket for transportation between New York and London, England, with a stopover in Montreal, Canada. After arriving in Montreal A decides not to continue his trip to London and returns to New York. A is liable for tax with respect to the amount paid for his transportation from New York to Montreal and return. The amount paid for A's transportation became subject to tax at the time he began his return trip to New York, and within 30 days thereafter A must pay the tax to either the person from whom he purchased the ticket or his district director of internal revenue.Example (2).A purchases in Chicago a ticket for air transportation to begin after November 15, 1962, from Chicago to London with a stopover in New York. A is scheduled to arrive in New York at 4:30 p.m. and depart from New York on the international portion at 7:30 p.m. A arrives in New York on schedule but for his own convenience reschedules his departure on a flight departing at 11:00 p.m. Since A lengthened the interval between the end of the United States portion and the beginning of the international portion beyond the 6-hour limitation, that portion of his international air transportation between Chicago and New York became subject to tax. The carrier furnishing A's transportation from New York to London shall, before furnishing him with any transportation or at the time he reschedules the remaining portion of his trip, whichever is earlier, collect the tax due on the Chicago to New York portion from A unless the carrier has written evidence that such tax has been paid to (i) a district director of internal revenue, or (ii) the person to whom the payment for the international air transportation was originally made, or (iii) any person furnishing any other portion of the international air transportation.[T.D. 6430, 24 FR 9665, Dec. 3, 1959, as amended by T.D. 6618, 27 FR 11226, Nov. 14, 1962]