##### § 263.23 Small flood control project authority (Section 205). #####

(a) *Legislative authority.* Section 205 of the Flood Control Act approved 30 June 1948, as amended by section 205 of the Flood Control Act approved 23 October 1962, section 61 of the Water Resources Development Act approved 7 March 1974, and section 133(b) of the Water Resources Development Act approved 22 October 1976, states:

The Secretary of the Army is authorized to allot from any appropriations heretofore or hereafter made for flood control, not to exceed $30,000,000 for any one fiscal year, for the construction of small projects for flood control and related purposes not specifically authorized by Congress, which come within the provisions of Section 1 of the Flood Control Act of June 22, 1936, when in the opinion of the Chief of Engineers such work is advisable. The amount allotted for a project shall be sufficient to complete Federal participation in the project. Not more than $2,000,000 shall be allotted under this section for a project at any single locality, except that not more than $3,000,000 shall be allotted under this section for a project at a single locality if such project protects an area which has been declared to be a major disaster area pursuant to the Disaster Relief Act of 1966 or the Disaster Relief Act of 1970 in the five-year period immediately preceding the date the Chief of Engineers deems such work advisable. The provisions of local cooperation specified in Section 3 of the Flood Control Act of June 22, 1936, as amended, shall apply. The work shall be complete in itself and not commit the United States to any additional improvement to insure its successful operation, except as may result from the normal procedure applying to projects authorized after submission of preliminary examination and survey reports.

(b) *Non-Federal responsibilities for dam and reservoir project.* All new projects under this authority, including dams and reservoirs, are considered local protection projects. Non-Federal responsibilities for such dams and reservoirs will thus include the usual lands, easements, right-of-way, and other requirements of local protection projects. Similarly, non-Federal interests must operate the flood control features of any dam or reservoir in accordance with regulations prescribed under the authority contained in section 7 of the Flood Control Act of December 1944.

(c) *Major disaster area.* Determination of a “major disaster area” can be made only by the President, pursuant to the Disaster Relief Acts cited above.

(d) *Local cooperation.* As stated in para 1a of this part, the provisions of section 3, Flood Control Act of 1936, as amended (33 U.S.C. 701c), are applicable. Other requirements shall be recommended by reporting officers to insure the long-term viability of the plan and the attainment of benefits from the plan. Consideration of land enhancement shall be in accordance with EM 1120-2-109.

(e) *Limitation on erosion protection.* This authority shall not be used for protecting against bank erosion. However, bank stabilization may be included as an integral part of a plan for preventing flood damage.

[40 FR 51134, Nov. 3, 1975, as amended at 41 FR 56943, Dec. 30, 1976]