##### § 1703.128 Submission of applications. #####

(a) Applications for grants shall be submitted to the RUS, U.S. Department of Agriculture, 1400 Independence Avenue, SW., STOP 1590, Washington, DC 20250-1590. Applications should be marked “Attention: Assistant Administrator, Telecommunications Program”.

(b) Applications must be submitted to RUS postmarked not later than the application filing deadline established by the Administrator if the applications are to be considered during the period for which the application was submitted. The deadline for submission of applications each fiscal year will be published, and provided through other notices, by RUS in the Federal Register, at least 30 days before the deadline occurs. It is suggested that applications be submitted prior to the respective deadline to ensure they can be reviewed and considered complete by the deadline. RUS will review each application for completeness in accordance with § 1703.125, and notify the applicant, within 15 working days of the receipt of the application, of the results of this review, citing any information that is incomplete. To be considered for a grant, the applicant must submit the information to complete the application within 15 working days of the date of RUS' written response. If the applicant has submitted an application prior to the application filing deadline, the applicant will have 15 working days from RUS' response or until the application filing deadline to submit information, whichever provides the applicant more time. If the applicant fails to submit such information by the appropriate deadline, the application will be considered during the next established application period.

(c) All applicants must submit an original and two copies of a completed application. Applicants must also submit a copy of the application to the State government point of contact, if one has been designated for the State, at the same time it submits an application to RUS. All applications must include the information required by § 1703.125.