cfr/title-49-Transportation/subtitle-B-Other-Regulations-Relating-Transportation/chapter-X-Surface-Transportation-Board/subchapter-A-General-Rules-Regulations/part-1001-Inspection-Records/section-1001.3.md, before:

##### § 1001.3 Requests to inspect other records not considered public under 5 U.S.C. 552. #####

Link to an amendment published at 81 FR 90750, Dec. 15, 2016.

Requests to inspect records other than those now deemed to be of a public nature shall be in writing and addressed to the Freedom of Information Officer (Officer). The Officer shall determine within 20 days of receipt of a request (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays) whether a requested record will be made available. If the Officer determines that a request cannot be honored, the Officer must inform the requesting party in writing of this decision and such letter shall contain a detailed explanation of why the requested material cannot be made available and explain the requesting party's right of appeal. If the Officer rules that such records cannot be made available because they are exempt under the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552(b), an appeal from such ruling may be addressed to the Chairman. The Chairman's decision shall be administratively final and state the specific exemption(s) contained in 5 U.S.C. 552(b) relied upon for denial. Such an appeal must be filed within 30 days of the date of the Freedom of Information Officer's letter. The Chairman shall act in writing on such appeals within 20 days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays) of receipt of any appeal. In unusual circumstances, as set forth in 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(6)(B), the time limit may be extended, by written notice to the person making the particular request, setting forth the reasons for such extension, for no more than 10 working days. If the appeal is denied, the Chairman's order shall notify the requesting party of his or her right to judicial review. Charges shall be made as provided for in § 1002.1(f) of this chapter.

[62 FR 48954, Sept. 18, 1997, as amended at 81 FR 8850, Feb. 23, 2016]

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2017-01-18 issue
Title: 5: Administrative Personnel - Sections changed: 3
Title: 8: Aliens and Nationality - Sections changed: 46
Title: 12: Banks and Banking - Sections changed: 29
Title: 17: Commodity and Securities Exchanges - Sections changed: 21
Title: 34: Education - Sections changed: 2
Title: 20: Employees' Benefits - Sections changed: 102
Title: 21: Food and Drugs - Sections changed: 23
Title: 26: Internal Revenue - Sections changed: 4
Title: 28: Judicial Administration - Sections changed: 17
Title: 29: Labor - Sections changed: 68
Title: 30: Mineral Resources - Sections changed: 3
Title: 36: Parks, Forests, and Public Property - Sections changed: 24
Title: 40: Protection of Environment - Sections changed: 116
Title: 42: Public Health - Sections changed: 329
Title: 43: Public Lands: Interior - Sections changed: 242
Title: 49: Transportation - Sections changed: 172

cfr/title-49-Transportation/subtitle-B-Other-Regulations-Relating-Transportation/chapter-X-Surface-Transportation-Board/subchapter-A-General-Rules-Regulations/part-1001-Inspection-Records/section-1001.3.md, after:

##### § 1001.3 Requests to inspect other records not considered public under 5 U.S.C. 552. #####

(a) *Request and determination.* Requests to inspect records other than those now deemed to be of a public nature shall be in writing and addressed to the Freedom of Information Act Officer (FOIA Officer). The FOIA Officer shall determine within 20 days of receipt of a request (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays) whether a requested record will be made available. If the FOIA Officer determines that a request cannot be honored, the FOIA Officer must inform the requesting party in writing of this decision and such letter shall contain a detailed explanation of why the requested material cannot be made available and explain the requesting party's right of appeal.

(b) *Appeal.* If the FOIA Officer rules that such records cannot be made available because they are exempt under the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552(b), an appeal from such ruling may be addressed to the Chairman. The Chairman's decision shall be administratively final and shall state the specific exemption(s) contained in 5 U.S.C. 552(b) relied upon for any denial. Such an appeal must be filed within 90 days of the date of the FOIA Officer's letter. The Chairman shall act in writing on such appeals within 20 days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays) of receipt of any appeal. In unusual circumstances, as set forth in 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(6)(B), the time limit may be extended, by written notice to the person making the particular request, setting forth the reasons for such extension, for no more than 10 working days. If the appeal is denied, the Chairman's order shall notify the requesting party of his or her right to judicial review. Charges shall be made as provided for in 49 CFR 1002.1.

(c) *Alternative dispute resolution services.* Requesters may seek dispute resolution services from:

(1) The Board's FOIA Public Liaison by Email at *FOIA.Privacy@stb.gov* or by mail, telephone, or facsimile as provided on the Board's Web site located at *https://www.stb.gov/stb/foia.html;* or

(2) The Office of Government Information Services (OGIS) by mail to Office of Government Information Services, National Archives and Records Administration, 8601 Adelphi Road—OGIS, College Park, Maryland, 20740-6001, by facsimile at (202) 741-5769, or by Email at *ogis@nara.gov.*

[81 FR 90750, Dec. 15, 2016]
