cfr/title-09-Animals-Animal-Products/chapter-I-Animal-Plant-Health-Inspection-Service-Department-Agriculture/subchapter-D-Exportation-Importation-Animals-Including-Poultry-Animal-Products/part-93-Importation-Certain-Animals-Birds-Fish-Poultry-Certain-Animal-Bird-Poultry-Products-Requirements-Means-Conveyance-Shipping-Containers/subpart-C-Horses/section-93.303.md, before:

##### § 93.303 Ports designated for the importation of horses. #####

Link to an amendment published at 88 FR 63001, Sept. 14, 2023.

(a) *Air and ocean ports.* The following ports have APHIS inspection and quarantine facilities necessary for quarantine stations and all horses shall be entered into the United States through these stations, except as provided in paragraphs (b), (c), (d), (e), and (f) of this section, §§ 93.308(a), (b) and (c) and 93.317: Los Angeles, California; Miami, Florida; and Newburgh, New York.

(b) *Canadian border ports.* (1) The following land border ports are designated as having the necessary inspection facilities for the entry of horses from Canada: Eastport, Idaho; Houlton and Jackman, Maine; Detroit, Port Huron, and Sault Ste. Marie, Michigan; Baudette, Minnesota; Opheim, Raymond, and Sweetgrass, Montana; Alexandria Bay, Buffalo, and Champlain, New York; Dunseith, Pembina, and Portal, North Dakota; Derby Line and Highgate Springs, Vermont; Oroville and Sumas, Washington.

(2) International Falls, Minnesota, is designated as a port of entry for horses from Canada.

(c) *Mexican border ports.* The following land border ports are designated for the entry of horses from Mexico: Brownsville, Hidalgo, Laredo, Eagle Pass, Del Rio, Presidio, and El Paso, Texas; Douglas, Naco, Nogales, Sasabe, and San Luis, Arizona; Calexico and San Ysidro, California; and Antelope Wells, Columbus, and Santa Teresa, New Mexico.

(d) *Limited ports.* The following ports are designated as having inspection facilities for the entry of horses and horse products such as horse test specimens which do not appear to require restraint and holding inspection facilities: Anchorage and Fairbanks, Alaska; San Diego, California; Jacksonville, St. Petersburg-Clearwater, and Tampa, Florida; Atlanta, Georgia; Honolulu, Hawaii; Chicago, Illinois; New Orleans, Louisiana; Portland, Maine; Baltimore, Maryland; Boston, Massachusetts; Minneapolis, Minnesota; Great Falls, Montana; Dayton, Ohio; Portland, Oregon; San Juan, Puerto Rico; Memphis, Tennessee (no live animals); Galveston and Houston, Texas; and Seattle, Spokane, and Tacoma, Washington.

(e) *Ports for horses to be quarantined at privately owned quarantine facilities.* Horses, except horses from or which have transited any region in which African horsesickness is declared to exist,10 may be entered into the United States at any port specified in paragraph (a) of this section, or at any other port designated as an international port or airport by the U.S. Customs Service and quarantined at privately owned quarantine facilities provided that applicable provisions of §§ 93.301(c), 93.304(a), 93.306, 93.308(a), (b) and (c), and 93.314 are met.

10 Information as to the regions where African horsesickness is declared to exist may be obtained from the Administrator.

(f) *Designation of other ports.* The Secretary of the Treasury has approved the designation as quarantine stations of the ports specified in this section. In special cases other ports may be designated as quarantine stations under this section by the Administrator, with the concurrence of the Secretary of the Treasury.

[55 FR 31495, Aug. 2, 1990. Redesignated at 62 FR 56012, Oct. 28, 1997]Editorial Note:For Federal Register citations affecting § 93.303, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at *www.govinfo.gov.*

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2023-10-16 issue
Title: 7: Agriculture - Sections changed: 3
Title: 9: Animals and Animal Products - Sections changed: 14
Title: 10: Energy - Sections changed: 1
Title: 26: Internal Revenue - Sections changed: 4
Title: 40: Protection of Environment - Sections changed: 7
Title: 47: Telecommunication - Sections changed: 1

cfr/title-09-Animals-Animal-Products/chapter-I-Animal-Plant-Health-Inspection-Service-Department-Agriculture/subchapter-D-Exportation-Importation-Animals-Including-Poultry-Animal-Products/part-93-Importation-Certain-Animals-Birds-Fish-Poultry-Certain-Animal-Bird-Poultry-Products-Requirements-Means-Conveyance-Shipping-Containers/subpart-C-Horses/section-93.303.md, after:

##### § 93.303 Ports designated for the importation of horses. #####

(a) *Air and ocean ports.* The following ports have APHIS inspection and quarantine facilities necessary for quarantine stations and all horses shall be entered into the United States through the following station(s), except as provided in paragraphs (b), (c), (d), (e), and (f) of this section, §§ 93.308(a), (b) and (c) and 93.317: Newburgh, New York.

(b) *Canadian border ports.* Land border ports designated for the entry of horses from Canada may be found on the APHIS website at *www.aphis.usda.gov/aphis/ourfocus/importexport/animal-import-and-export/equine.* Changes to the list of approved ports will be announced through notices published in the Federal Register.

(c) *Mexican border ports.* Land border ports designated for the entry of horses from Mexico may be found on the APHIS website at *www.aphis.usda.gov/aphis/ourfocus/importexport/animal-import-and-export/equine.* Changes to the list of approved ports will be announced through notices published in the Federal Register.

(d) *Limited ports.* Certain ports are designated as having inspection facilities for the entry of horses and horse products such as horse test specimens which do not appear to require restraint and holding inspection facilities. These ports may be found on the APHIS website at *www.aphis.usda.gov/aphis/ourfocus/importexport/animal-import-and-export/equine.* Changes to the list of approved ports will be announced through notices published in the Federal Register.

(e) *Ports for horses to be quarantined at privately owned quarantine facilities.* Horses, except horses from or which have transited any region in which African horsesickness is declared to exist,1 may be entered into the United States at any port specified in paragraph (a) of this section, or at any other port designated as an international port or airport by the U.S. Customs Service and quarantined at privately owned quarantine facilities provided that applicable provisions of §§ 93.301(c), 93.304(a), 93.306, 93.308(a), (b) and (c), and 93.314 are met. These ports may be found on the APHIS website at *www.aphis.usda.gov/aphis/ourfocus/importexport/animal-import-and-export/equine.*

1 Information as to the regions where African horsesickness is declared to exist may be obtained from the Administrator.

(f) *Designation of other ports.* The Secretary of the Treasury has approved the designation as quarantine stations of the ports specified in this section. In special cases other ports may be designated as quarantine stations under this section by the Administrator, with the concurrence of the Secretary of the Treasury.

[55 FR 31495, Aug. 2, 1990. Redesignated at 62 FR 56012, Oct. 28, 1997]Editorial Note:For Federal Register citations affecting § 93.303, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at *www.govinfo.gov.*
