cfr/title-48-Federal-Acquisition-Regulations-System/chapter-1-Federal-Acquisition-Regulation/subchapter-H-Clauses-Forms/part-52-Solicitation-Provisions-Contract-Clauses/subpart-52.2-Text-Provisions-Clauses/section-52.215-14.md, before:

##### 52.215-14 Integrity of Unit Prices. #####

Link to an amendment published at 85 FR 27094, May 6, 2020.

As prescribed in 15.408(f)(1), insert the following clause:

Integrity of Unit Prices (OCT 2010)

(a) Any proposal submitted for the negotiation of prices for items of supplies shall distribute costs within contracts on a basis that ensures that unit prices are in proportion to the items' base cost (e.g., manufacturing or acquisition costs). Any method of distributing costs to line items that distorts unit prices shall not be used. For example, distributing costs equally among line items is not acceptable except when there is little or no variation in base cost. Nothing in this paragraph requires submission of certified cost or pricing data not otherwise required by law or regulation.

(b) When requested by the Contracting Officer, the Offeror/Contractor shall also identify those supplies that it will not manufacture or to which it will not contribute significant value.

(c) The Contractor shall insert the substance of this clause, less paragraph (b), in all subcontracts for other than: acquisitions at or below the simplified acquisition threshold in FAR Part 2; construction or architect-engineer services under FAR Part 36; utility services under FAR Part 41; services where supplies are not required; commercial items; and petroleum products.

(End of clause)

*Alternate I* (OCT 1997). As prescribed in 15.408(f)(2), substitute the following paragraph (b) for paragraph (b) of the basic clause:

(b) The Offeror/Contractor shall also identify those supplies that it will not manufacture or to which it will not contribute significant value.

[62 FR 51263, Sept. 30, 1997, as amended at 75 FR 53151, Aug. 30, 2010]

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2020-06-08 issue
Title: 7: Agriculture - Sections changed: 10
Title: 48: Federal Acquisition Regulations System - Sections changed: 100
Title: 21: Food and Drugs - Sections changed: 1
Title: 24: Housing and Urban Development - Sections changed: 3
Title: 29: Labor - Sections changed: 3
Title: 30: Mineral Resources - Sections changed: 2
Title: 33: Navigation and Navigable Waters - Sections changed: 4
Title: 40: Protection of Environment - Sections changed: 1
Title: 47: Telecommunication - Sections changed: 2

cfr/title-48-Federal-Acquisition-Regulations-System/chapter-1-Federal-Acquisition-Regulation/subchapter-H-Clauses-Forms/part-52-Solicitation-Provisions-Contract-Clauses/subpart-52.2-Text-Provisions-Clauses/section-52.215-14.md, after:

##### 52.215-14 Integrity of Unit Prices. #####

As prescribed in 15.408(f)(1), insert the following clause:

Integrity of Unit Prices (JUN 2020)

(a) Any proposal submitted for the negotiation of prices for items of supplies shall distribute costs within contracts on a basis that ensures that unit prices are in proportion to the items' base cost (e.g., manufacturing or acquisition costs). Any method of distributing costs to line items that distorts unit prices shall not be used. For example, distributing costs equally among line items is not acceptable except when there is little or no variation in base cost. Nothing in this paragraph requires submission of certified cost or pricing data not otherwise required by law or regulation.

(b) When requested by the Contracting Officer, the Offeror/Contractor shall also identify those supplies that it will not manufacture or to which it will not contribute significant value.

(c) The Contractor shall insert the substance of this clause, less paragraph (b) of this clause, in all subcontracts for other than: acquisitions at or below the simplified acquisition threshold, as defined in Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 2.101 on the date of subcontract award; construction or architect-engineer services under FAR part 36; utility services under FAR part 41; services where supplies are not required; commercial items; and petroleum products.

(End of clause)

*Alternate I* (OCT 1997). As prescribed in 15.408(f)(2), substitute the following paragraph (b) for paragraph (b) of the basic clause:

(b) The Offeror/Contractor shall also identify those supplies that it will not manufacture or to which it will not contribute significant value.

[62 FR 51263, Sept. 30, 1997, as amended at 75 FR 53151, Aug. 30, 2010; 85 FR 27094, May 6, 2020]
