cfr/title-48-Federal-Acquisition-Regulations-System/chapter-1-Federal-Acquisition-Regulation/subchapter-H-Clauses-Forms/part-52-Solicitation-Provisions-Contract-Clauses/subpart-52.2-Text-Provisions-Clauses/section-52.225-4.md, before:

##### 52.225-4 Buy American - Free Trade Agreements - Israeli Trade Act Certificate. #####

Link to an amendment published at 87 FR 73894, Dec. 1, 2022.

As prescribed in 25.1101(b)(2)(i), insert the following provision:

Buy American - Free Trade Agreements - Israeli Trade Act Certificate (OCT 2022)

(a)(1) The Offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (b) or (c)(1) of this provision, is a domestic end product and that each domestic end product listed in paragraph (c)(2) of this provision contains a critical component.

(2) The terms “Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian end product,” “commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) item,” “critical component,” “domestic end product,” “end product,” “foreign end product,” “Free Trade Agreement country,” “Free Trade Agreement country end product,” “Israeli end product,” and “United States” are defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American - Free Trade Agreements - Israeli Trade Act.”

(b) The Offeror certifies that the following supplies are Free Trade Agreement country end products (other than Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian end products) or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American - Free Trade Agreements - Israeli Trade Act”:

Free Trade Agreement Country End Products (Other than Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian End Products) or Israeli End Products:

|Line item No.|Country of origin|
|-------------|-----------------|
|             |                 |
|             |                 |
|             |                 |

[List as necessary]

(c)(1) The Offeror shall list those supplies that are foreign end products (other than those listed in paragraph (b) of this provision) as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American - Free Trade Agreements - Israeli Trade Act.” The Offeror shall list as other foreign end products those end products manufactured in the United States that do not qualify as domestic end products. For those foreign end products that do not consist wholly or predominantly of iron or steel or a combination of both, the Offeror shall also indicate whether these foreign end products exceed 55 percent domestic content, except for those that are COTS items. If the percentage of the domestic content is unknown, select “no”.

Other Foreign End Products:

|Line Item No.|Country of origin|Exceeds 55% domestic content  <br/>(yes/no)|
|-------------|-----------------|-------------------------------------------|
|             |                 |                                           |
|             |                 |                                           |
|             |                 |                                           |

(2) The Offeror shall list the line item numbers of domestic end products that contain a critical component (see FAR 25.105).

Line Item No. \_\_\_\_\_\_

[List as necessary]

(d) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of part 25 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation.

(End of provision)

*Alternate I* (JAN 2021). As prescribed in 25.1101(b)(2)(ii), substitute the following paragraph (b) for paragraph (b) of the basic provision:

(b) The Offeror certifies that the following supplies are Canadian end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American - Free Trade Agreements - Israeli Trade Act - Balance of Payments Program”:

Canadian End Products:Line Item No.

(List as necessary)

*Alternate II* (FEB 2021). As prescribed in 25.1101(b)(2)(iii), substitute the following paragraph (b) for paragraph (b) of the basic provision:

(b) The Offeror certifies that the following supplies are Canadian end products or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American - Free Trade Agreements - Israeli Trade Act - Balance of Payments Program”:

Canadian or Israeli End Products:

|Line item No.|Country of origin|
|-------------|-----------------|
|             |                 |
|             |                 |
|             |                 |

[List as necessary]

*Alternate III* (FEB 2021). As prescribed in 25.1101(b)(2)(iv), substitute the following paragraph (b) for paragraph (b) of the basic provision:

(b) The Offeror certifies that the following supplies are Free Trade Agreement country end products (other than Bahrainian, Korean, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian end products) or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American - Free Trade Agreements - Israeli Trade Act”:

Free Trade Agreement Country End Products (Other than Bahrainian, Korean, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian End Products) or Israeli End Products:

|Line item No.|Country of origin|
|-------------|-----------------|
|             |                 |
|             |                 |
|             |                 |

[List as necessary][64 FR 72435, Dec. 27, 1999; 65 FR 4633, Jan. 31, 2000, as amended at 67 FR 21536, May 15, 2002; 68 FR 28086, May 22, 2003; 69 FR 1056, Jan. 7, 2004; 71 FR 36938, June 28, 2006; 71 FR 67777, Nov. 22, 2006; 72 FR 46358, Aug. 17, 2007; 74 FR 2723, Jan. 15, 2009; 74 FR 28429, June 15, 2009; 77 FR 13956, Mar. 7, 2012; 77 FR 69725, Nov. 20, 2012; 79 FR 24220, Apr. 29, 2014; 86 FR 3688, Jan. 14, 2021; 86 FR 6191, Jan. 19, 2021; 87 FR 12797, Mar. 7, 2022]

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2022-12-30 issue
Title: 5: Administrative Personnel - Sections changed: 1
Title: 7: Agriculture - Sections changed: 1
Title: 12: Banks and Banking - Sections changed: 2
Title: 19: Customs Duties - Sections changed: 1
Title: 48: Federal Acquisition Regulations System - Sections changed: 316
Title: 21: Food and Drugs - Sections changed: 2
Title: 38: Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief - Sections changed: 2
Title: 40: Protection of Environment - Sections changed: 3
Title: 42: Public Health - Sections changed: 1
Title: 47: Telecommunication - Sections changed: 1
Title: 50: Wildlife and Fisheries - Sections changed: 1

cfr/title-48-Federal-Acquisition-Regulations-System/chapter-1-Federal-Acquisition-Regulation/subchapter-H-Clauses-Forms/part-52-Solicitation-Provisions-Contract-Clauses/subpart-52.2-Text-Provisions-Clauses/section-52.225-4.md, after:

##### 52.225-4 Buy American—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act Certificate. #####

As prescribed in 25.1101(b)(2)(i), insert the following provision:

Buy American—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act Certificate (OCT 2022)

(a)(1) The Offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (b) or (c)(1) of this provision, is a domestic end product and that each domestic end product listed in paragraph (c)(2) of this provision contains a critical component.

(2) The terms “Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian end product,” “commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) item,” “critical component,” “domestic end product,” “end product,” “foreign end product,” “Free Trade Agreement country,” “Free Trade Agreement country end product,” “Israeli end product,” and “United States” are defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act.”

(b) The Offeror certifies that the following supplies are Free Trade Agreement country end products (other than Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian end products) or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act”:

Free Trade Agreement Country End Products (Other than Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian End Products) or Israeli End Products:

|Line item No.|Country of origin|
|-------------|-----------------|
|             |                 |
|             |                 |
|             |                 |

[List as necessary]

(c)(1) The Offeror shall list those supplies that are foreign end products (other than those listed in paragraph (b) of this provision) as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act.” The Offeror shall list as other foreign end products those end products manufactured in the United States that do not qualify as domestic end products. For those foreign end products that do not consist wholly or predominantly of iron or steel or a combination of both, the Offeror shall also indicate whether these foreign end products exceed 55 percent domestic content, except for those that are COTS items. If the percentage of the domestic content is unknown, select “no”.

Other Foreign End Products:

|Line Item No.|Country of origin|Exceeds 55% domestic content  <br/>(yes/no)|
|-------------|-----------------|-------------------------------------------|
|             |                 |                                           |
|             |                 |                                           |
|             |                 |                                           |

(2) The Offeror shall list the line item numbers of domestic end products that contain a critical component (see FAR 25.105).

Line Item No. \_\_\_\_\_\_

[List as necessary]

(d) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of part 25 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation.

(End of provision)

*Alternate I* [Reserved]

*Alternate II* (DEC 2022). As prescribed in 25.1101(b)(2)(ii), substitute the following paragraph (b) for paragraph (b) of the basic provision:

(b) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act—Balance of Payments Program”:

*Israeli End Products*

|            |   |   |
|------------|---|---|
|Line Item No|   |   |
|            |   |   |
|            |   |   |
|            |   |   |

[List as necessary]

*Alternate III* (FEB 2021). As prescribed in 25.1101(b)(2)(iii), substitute the following paragraph (b) for paragraph (b) of the basic provision:

(b) The Offeror certifies that the following supplies are Free Trade Agreement country end products (other than Bahrainian, Korean, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian end products) or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American—Free Trade Agreements—Israeli Trade Act”:

Free Trade Agreement Country End Products (Other than Bahrainian, Korean, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian End Products) or Israeli End Products:

|Line item No.|Country of origin|
|-------------|-----------------|
|             |                 |
|             |                 |
|             |                 |

[List as necessary][64 FR 72435, Dec. 27, 1999; 65 FR 4633, Jan. 31, 2000]Editorial Note:For Federal Register citations affecting 52.225-4, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at www.fdsys.gov.
