cfr/title-29-Labor/subtitle-B-Regulations-Relating-Labor/chapter-XVII-Occupational-Safety-Health-Administration-Department-Labor/part-1910-Occupational-Safety-Health-Standards/subpart-D-WalkingWorking-Surfaces/section-1910.30.md, before:

##### § 1910.30 Other working surfaces. #####

(a) *Dockboards (bridge plates).* (1) Portable and powered dockboards shall be strong enough to carry the load imposed on them.

(2) Portable dockboards shall be secured in position, either by being anchored or equipped with devices which will prevent their slipping.

(3) Powered dockboards shall be designed and constructed in accordance with Commercial Standard CS202-56 (1961) “Industrial Lifts and Hinged Loading Ramps published by the U.S. Department of Commerce, which is incorporated by reference as specified in § 1910.6.

(4) Handholds, or other effective means, shall be provided on portable dockboards to permit safe handling.

(5) Positive protection shall be provided to prevent railroad cars from being moved while dockboards or bridge plates are in position.

(b) *Forging machine area.* (1) Machines shall be so located as to give (i) enough clearance between machines so that the movement of one operator will not interfere with the work of another, (ii) ample room for cleaning machines and handling the work, including material and scrap. The arrangement of machines shall be such that operators will not stand in aisles.

(2) Aisles shall be provided of sufficient width to permit the free movement of employees bringing and removing material. This aisle space is to be independent of working and storage space.

(3) Wood platforms used on the floor in front of machines shall be substantially constructed.

(c) *Veneer machinery.* (1) Sides of steam vats shall extend to a height of not less than 36 inches above the floor, working platform, or ground.

(2) Large steam vats divided into sections shall be provided with substantial walkways between sections. Each walkway shall be provided with a standard handrail on each exposed side. These handrails may be removable, if necessary.

(3) Covers shall be removed only from that portion of steaming vats on which men are working and a portable railing shall be placed at this point to protect the operators.

(4) Workmen shall not ride or step on logs in steam vats.

[39 FR 23502, June 27, 1974, as amended at 49 FR 5322, Feb. 10, 1984; 61 FR 9235, Mar. 7, 1996]

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2017-01-18 issue
Title: 5: Administrative Personnel - Sections changed: 3
Title: 8: Aliens and Nationality - Sections changed: 46
Title: 12: Banks and Banking - Sections changed: 29
Title: 17: Commodity and Securities Exchanges - Sections changed: 21
Title: 34: Education - Sections changed: 2
Title: 20: Employees' Benefits - Sections changed: 102
Title: 21: Food and Drugs - Sections changed: 23
Title: 26: Internal Revenue - Sections changed: 4
Title: 28: Judicial Administration - Sections changed: 17
Title: 29: Labor - Sections changed: 68
Title: 30: Mineral Resources - Sections changed: 3
Title: 36: Parks, Forests, and Public Property - Sections changed: 24
Title: 40: Protection of Environment - Sections changed: 116
Title: 42: Public Health - Sections changed: 329
Title: 43: Public Lands: Interior - Sections changed: 242
Title: 49: Transportation - Sections changed: 172

cfr/title-29-Labor/subtitle-B-Regulations-Relating-Labor/chapter-XVII-Occupational-Safety-Health-Administration-Department-Labor/part-1910-Occupational-Safety-Health-Standards/subpart-D-WalkingWorking-Surfaces/section-1910.30.md, after:

##### § 1910.30 Training requirements. #####

(a) *Fall hazards.* (1) Before any employee is exposed to a fall hazard, the employer must provide training for each employee who uses personal fall protection systems or who is required to be trained as specified elsewhere in this subpart. Employers must ensure employees are trained in the requirements of this paragraph on or before May 17, 2017.

(2) The employer must ensure that each employee is trained by a qualified person.

(3) The employer must train each employee in at least the following topics:

(i) The nature of the fall hazards in the work area and how to recognize them;

(ii) The procedures to be followed to minimize those hazards;

(iii) The correct procedures for installing, inspecting, operating, maintaining, and disassembling the personal fall protection systems that the employee uses; and

(iv) The correct use of personal fall protection systems and equipment specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, including, but not limited to, proper hook-up, anchoring, and tie-off techniques, and methods of equipment inspection and storage, as specified by the manufacturer.

(b) *Equipment hazards.* (1) The employer must train each employee on or before May 17, 2017 in the proper care, inspection, storage, and use of equipment covered by this subpart before an employee uses the equipment.

(2) The employer must train each employee who uses a dockboard to properly place and secure it to prevent unintentional movement.

(3) The employer must train each employee who uses a rope descent system in proper rigging and use of the equipment in accordance with § 1910.27.

(4) The employer must train each employee who uses a designated area in the proper set-up and use of the area.

(c) *Retraining.* The employer must retrain an employee when the employer has reason to believe the employee does not have the understanding and skill required by paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. Situations requiring retraining include, but are not limited to, the following:

(1) When changes in the workplace render previous training obsolete or inadequate;

(2) When changes in the types of fall protection systems or equipment to be used render previous training obsolete or inadequate; or

(3) When inadequacies in an affected employee's knowledge or use of fall protection systems or equipment indicate that the employee no longer has the requisite understanding or skill necessary to use equipment or perform the job safely.

(d) *Training must be understandable.* The employer must provide information and training to each employee in a manner that the employee understands.
