##### ยง 500.30 General statement concerning procedures and forms. #####

(a) Rules and procedures of the Office are published in chapter V of title 12 of the Code of Federal Regulations and in supplementary material published in the Federal Register. The statutes administered by the Office and the rules and regulations promulgated pursuant to such statutes prescribe the course and method of the formal procedures to be followed in proceedings of the Office. These are supplemented where practicable by informal procedures designed to aid the public and facilitate the execution of the Office's functions. The informal procedures of the Office consist principally in the rendering of advice and assistance to members of the public dealing with the Office. Opinions expressed by members of the staff do not constitute an official expression of the views of the Office, but do represent views of persons working with the provisions of the statute or regulation involved. The Director may, for good cause and to the extent permitted by statute, waive the applicability of any provision of this chapter.

(b) Information with respect to procedures, forms, and instructions of the Office is available to the public at the headquarters of the Office. Forms of concern to the public consist principally of periodic financial reports and of applications to the Office. The Office may from time to time require the completion by individuals or savings associations of miscellaneous forms, questionnaires, reports, or other papers. In each instance, the individual or savings association is given actual and timely notice of the scope and contents of the papers in question.

[54 FR 49440, Nov. 30, 1989, as amended at 59 FR 53570, Oct. 25, 1994]