##### ยง 31.3121(k)-4 Constructive filing of waivers of exemption from social security taxes by certain tax-exempt organizations. #####

(a) *Constructive filing of waiver certificate where no refund or credit has been allowed.* (1) This paragraph applies (except as provided in subparagraph (3) of this paragraph) to an organization if all of the following four conditions are met.

(i) The organization is one described in section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, which is exempt from income tax under section 501(a) of the Code.

(ii) The organization did not file a valid waiver certificate under section 3121(k)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 (or the corresponding provision of prior law) as of the later of October 19, 1976, or the earliest date on which it satisfies paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section.

(iii) The taxes imposed by sections 3101 and 3111 of the Code were paid with respect to remuneration paid by the organization to its employees, as though such certificate had been filed, during any period that includes all or part of at least three consecutive calendar quarters and that did not terminate before the end of the third calendar quarter of 1973.

(iv) The Internal Revenue Service did not allow (or erroneously allowed) a refund or credit of any part of the taxes paid as described in subdivision (iii) of this subparagraph with respect to remuneration for services performed on or after April 1, 1973. For purposes of the previous sentence, a refund or credit which would have been allowed, even if a valid waiver certificate filed under section 3121(k)(1) had been in effect, shall be disregarded. A refund or credit will be regarded as having been erroneously allowed if it was credited by the Internal Revenue Service to the taxpayer account of the organization or any of its employees on or after September 9, 1976, even though it was properly made under the law in effect when made.

(2) (i) An organization to which this paragraph applies shall be deemed to have filed a valid waiver certificate under section 3121(k)(1) (or the corresponding provision of prior law) for purposes of section 210(a)(8)(B) of the Social Security Act and section 3121(b)(8)(B). The waiver certificate shall be deemed to have been filed on the first day of the period described in paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section and shall be effective on the first day of the calendar quarter in which such period began. However, such waiver is effective only with respect to remuneration for services performed after 1950.

(ii) The waiver certificate shall be deemed to have been accompanied by a list containing the signature, address, and social security number (if any) of each employee with respect to whom the taxes imposed by sections 3101 and 3111 were paid as described in paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section. Each such employee shall be deemed to have concurred in the filing of the certificate for purposes of section 210(a)(8)(B) of the Social Security Act and section 3121(b)(8)(B). A statement containing the name, address, and employer identification number of the organization, and the name, last known address, and social security number (if any) of each employee described in the preceding sentence shall be filed by the organization at the request of the Internal Revenue Service.

(iii) The services of all employees entering or reentering the employ of an organization on or after the first day following the close of the calendar quarter in which the organization is deemed to have filed the waiver certificate, performed on or after the day of such entry or reentry, shall be covered by the certificate.

(3) This paragraph (a) shall not apply to an organization if -

(i) Prior to the end of the period referred to in paragraph (a)(1)(iii) (and, in addition, in the case of an organization organized on or before October 9, 1969, prior to October 19, 1976), the organization had applied for a ruling or determination letter acknowledging it to be exempt from income tax under section 501(c)(3);

(ii) The organization subsequently received such ruling or determination letter;

(iii) The organization did not pay any taxes under sections 3101 and 3111 with respect to any employee for any calendar quarter ending after the twelfth month following the date of mailing of the ruling or determination letter; and

(iv) The organization did not pay any taxes under sections 3101 and 3111 with respect to any calendar quarter beginning after the later of December 31, 1975, or the date on which the ruling or determination letter was issued.

(4) In the case of an organization which is deemed under this paragraph to have filed a valid waiver certificate under section 3121(k)(1), if the period with respect to which the taxes imposed by sections 3101 and 3111 were paid by the organization (as described in paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section) terminated prior to October 1, 1976, taxes under sections 3101 and 3111 with respect to remuneration paid by the organization after the termination of such period and prior to July 1, 1977, which remained unpaid on December 20, 1977 (or which were paid after October 19, 1976, but prior to December 20, 1977), shall not be due or payable (or, if paid, shall be refunded). Similarly, an organization that received a refund or credit of the taxes described in paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section after September 8, 1976, shall not be liable for the taxes imposed by sections 3101 and 3111 with respect to remuneration paid by it prior to July 1, 1977, for which the organization received the refund or credit. The waiver certificate, which an organization described in this subparagraph is deemed to have filed, shall not apply to any service with respect to the remuneration for which the taxes imposed by sections 3101 and 3111 are not due or payable (or are refunded) by reason of this subparagraph.

(5) In the case of an organization which is deemed under this paragraph to have filed a valid waiver certificate under section 3121(k)(1), if the taxes imposed by sections 3101 and 3111 were not paid during the period referred to in paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section (whether the period has terminated or not) with respect to remuneration paid by the organization to individuals who became its employees after the close of the calendar quarter in which such period began, taxes under sections 3101 and 3111 with respect to remuneration paid prior to July 1, 1977, to such employees, which remain unpaid on December 20, 1977 (or which were paid after October 19, 1976, but prior to December 20, 1977), shall not be due or payable (or, if paid, shall be refunded). The waiver certificate, which an organization described in this subparagraph is deemed to have filed, shall not apply to any service with respect to remuneration for which the taxes imposed by sections 3101 and 3111 are not due or payable (or are refunded) by reason of this subparagraph.

(6) This subparagraph allows certain employees to obtain social security coverage for service not covered by a deemed-filed waiver certificate by reason of section 3121(k)(4)(C) and paragraph (a)(4) or (5) of this section. To qualify under this subparagraph, all of the following conditions must be met.

(i) An individual performed service as an employee of an organization which is deemed under this paragraph to have filed a waiver certificate under section 3121(k)(1), on or after the first day of the period described in paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section and before July 1, 1977.

(ii) The service performed by the individual does not constitute employment (as defined in section 210 (a) of the Social Security Act and section 3121(b) of the Code) because the waiver certificate which the organization is deemed to have filed is inapplicable to such service by reason of section 3121(k)(4)(C), but would constitute employment (as so defined) in the absence of section 3121(k)(4)(C).

(iii) The individual files a request on or before April 15, 1980, in the manner and form, and with such official, as may be prescribed by regulations under title II of the Social Security Act.

(iv) That request is accompanied by full payment of the taxes, which would have been paid under section 3101 with respect to the remuneration for the service described in paragraph (a)(6)(ii) of this section but for the application of section 3121(k)(4)(C) (or by satisfactory evidence that appropriate arrangements have been made for the payment of such taxes in installments as provided in section 3121(k)(8) and paragraph (d) of this section).

If these conditions are satisfied, the remuneration paid for the service described in paragraph (a)(6)(i) of this section shall be deemed to constitute remuneration for employment. In any case where remuneration paid by an organization to an individual is deemed under this subparagraph to constitute remuneration for employment, such organization shall be liable (notwithstanding any other provision of the Code or regulations) for payment of the taxes it would have been required to pay under section 3111 with respect to such remuneration but for the application of section 3121(k)(4)(C). The due date for the return and payment by the organization of the taxes described in the preceding sentence shall be the last day of the calendar month following the calendar quarter in which the organization is notified in writing of the employee's request. However, see paragraph (d) of this section which permits the payment of these taxes in installments.

(b) *Constructive filing of waiver certificate where refund or credit has been allowed and new certificate is not filed.* (1) This paragraph applies to an organization which meets two conditions. First, it must be an organization to which paragraph (a) of this section would apply but for its failure to satisfy the requirement of paragraph (a)(1)(iv) of this section because a refund or credit of taxes was allowed before September 9, 1976. Second, it must not have filed an actual valid waiver certificate under section 3121(k)(1) in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section.

(2) An organization to which this paragraph applies shall be deemed, for purposes of section 210(a)(8)(B) of the Social Security Act and section 3121(b)(8)(B), to have filed a valid waiver certificate under section 3121(k)(1) on April 1, 1978. Such certificate shall be effective for the period beginning on the first day of the first calendar quarter with respect to which the refund or credit referred to in paragraph (b)(1) of this section was allowed (or, if later, on July 1, 1973).

(3) If an organization is deemed under this paragraph to have filed a waiver certificate on April 1, 1978, the provisions of paragraph (a)(2)(ii) and (iii) of this section (relating to employees covered by a deemed-filed waiver certificate) shall apply. Such certificate shall supersede any certificate which may have been actually filed by such organization prior to that date.

(4) Where an organization is deemed under this paragraph to have filed a waiver certificate on April 1, 1978, the due date for the return and payment of the taxes imposed by sections 3101 and 3111 for wages paid prior to April 1, 1978, with respect to services constituting employment by reason of such certificate shall be August 1, 1978. However, see paragraph (d) of this section which permits the payment of these taxes in installments. Such taxes (along with the amount of any interest paid in connection with the refund or credit described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section) shall be a liability of such organization, payable from its own funds. No portion of such taxes (or interest) shall be deducted from the wages of (or otherwise collected from) the individuals who performed such services, and those individuals shall have no liability for the payment thereof.

(5) This subparagraph allows certain employees of organizations covered under this paragraph to obtain social security coverage for periods prior to those covered by a deemed-filed waiver certificate. To qualify under this subparagraph, all of the following conditions must be met.

(i) An individual performed service, as an employee of an organization deemed under this paragraph to have filed a waiver certificate under section 3121(k)(1), at any time prior to the period for which such certificate is effective.

(ii) The taxes imposed by sections 3101 and 3111 were paid with respect to remuneration paid for such service, but such service (or any part thereof) does not constitute employment (as defined in section 210(a) of the Social Security Act and section 3121(b)) because the applicable taxes so paid were refunded or credited (otherwise than through a refund or credit which would have been allowed if a valid waiver certificate filed under section 3121(k)(1) had been in effect) prior to September 9, 1976.

(iii) Any portion of such service (with respect to which taxes were paid and refunded or credited as described in paragraph (b)(5)(ii) of this section) would constitute employment (as so defined) if the organization had actually filed under section 3121(k)(1) a valid waiver certificate effective as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section (with such individual's signature appearing on the accompanying list).

If this subparagraph applies, the remuneration paid for the portion of such service described in paragraph (b)(5)(iii) of this section shall be deemed to constitute remuneration for employment (as defined in section 210(a) of the Social Security Act and section 3121(b)), where such individual filed a request on or before April 15, 1980 (in the manner and form, and with such official, as may be prescribed by regulations under title II of the Social Security Act), accompanied by full repayment of the taxes which were paid under section 3101 with respect to such remuneration and were refunded or credited (or by satisfactory evidence that arrangements have been made for the payment of such taxes in installments as provided in section 3121(k)(8) and paragraph (d) of this section). In any case where remuneration paid by an organization to an individual is deemed under this subparagraph to constitute remuneration for employment such organization shall be liable (notwithstanding any other provision of the Code or regulations) for repayment of any taxes which it paid under section 3111 with respect to such remuneration and which were refunded or credited to it. Any interest received by the organization or its employees in connection with a refund or credit with respect to such taxes shall be remitted with the repayment of taxes pursuant to this subparagraph.

(c) *Actual filing of waiver certificate by April 1, 1978, where refund or credit has been allowed.* (1) An organization may file an actual waiver certificate in accordance with paragraphs (c)(2) and (3) of this section if it is an organization to which paragraph (a) of this section would apply but for its failure to meet the condition set forth in paragraph (a)(1)(iv) of this section.

(2) An organization described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section was permitted to file an actual waiver certificate on or before April 1, 1978. This certificate must be effective for the period beginning on or before the first day of the first calendar quarter with respect to which a refund or credit described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section was allowed (or, if later, with the first day of the earliest calendar quarter for which such certificate may be in effect under section 3121(k)(1)(B)(iii)). Such waiver certificate must have been accompanied by a list described in section 3121(k)(1)(A), containing the signature, address, and social security number of each concurring employee (if any).

(3) Such a waiver certificate shall be valid only if the organization complied with the following notification requirements and, on or before April 30, 1978, filed (with the service center of the Internal Revenue Service with which the waiver certificate was filed) a certification that it had complied with these notification requirements. However, these requirements shall be conclusively presumed to have been met with respect to any employees who concurred in the filing of the waiver certificate.

(i) Written notification of the option to obtain social security coverage for the retroactive period covered by the waiver certificate is required to have been given to all current and former employees of the organization with respect to whose remuneration taxes imposed by sections 3101 and 3111 were paid for any part of the period covered by the waiver certificate. For purposes of the preceding sentence, in the case of a former employee a mailing of notification to his or her last known address shall constitute delivery to the former employee. This notification must have been given at least 30 days prior to the date by which the employee was required to inform the organization whether he or she elects the retroactive social security coverage.

(ii) The notification required by this subparagraph must have stated the earliest date for which the waiver certificate is effective and the date by which the employee must have informed the organization of a decision to elect the retroactive coverage. In addition, the notification must have advised the employee how to obtain information as to the quarters of social security coverage to be obtained and any taxes or interest for which the employee would be liable if the election was made. The organization must have provided this information to any interested employee at least 14 days prior to the last day on which such employee was to have informed the organization of any election.

(iii) If the notification resulted in any employee electing the retroactive coverage whose signature did not appear on the list of concurring employees which accompanied a previously filed waiver certificate, the certification that was supplied on or before April 30, 1978, must have been accompanied by a special amendment to that list. Any employee whose name appears on this special amended list shall be treated as if his or her name appeared on the list of concurring employees filed with the waiver certificate. The preceding sentence shall only apply with respect to amended lists of concurring employees filed to comply with the requirements of this subparagraph.

(4) Any interest received in connection with a refund or credit described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section must have been repaid on or before April 30, 1978, with respect to each employee who concurs in the filing of a waiver certificate pursuant to this paragraph. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (c)(4) of ยง 31.3121(k)-1, if such interest was repaid on or before April 30, 1978, the waiver certificate shall be considered to have been filed on the date it was originally furnished to the Internal Revenue Service.

(d) *Installment payment of taxes for retroactive coverage.* This paragraph applies if -

(1) An organization is deemed under paragraph (a) of this section to have filed a valid waiver certificate, but the applicable period described in paragraph (a)(1)(iii) has terminated and all or part of the taxes imposed by sections 3101 and 3111, with respect to remuneration paid by such organization to its employees after the close of such period, remains payable notwithstanding section 3121(k)(4)(C) and paragraph (a)(4) of this section; or

(2) An organization described in paragraph (c) files a valid waiver certificate by March 31, 1978, or, not having filed the certificate by that date, is seemed to have filed the certificate on April 1, 1978, under paragraph (b); or

(3) An individual files a request under paragraph (a)(6) or (b)(5) to have service treated as constituting remuneration for employment (as defined in section 210(a) of the Social Security Act and section 3121(b)).

If this paragraph applies, the taxes due under sections 3101 and 3111 (together with any additions to tax or interest other than interest described in paragraph (c)(4)) with respect to service constituting employment by reason of the waiver certificate for any period prior to the first day of the calendar quarter in which the certificate is filed or deemed filed, or with respect to service constituting employment by reason of an employee request, may be paid in installments over an appropriate period of time, as determined by the district director. In determining the appropriate period of time, the district director shall exercise forbearance and, to the extent possible, grant the organization an installment agreement that will allow it sufficient funds to carry out its basic mission. If any installment is not paid on or before the date fixed for its payment, the total unpaid amount shall become payable immediately and shall be paid upon notice and demand.

(e) *Application of certain provisions to cases of constructive filing.* (1) Except as provided in paragraphs (e)(2) and (3) of this section, all of the provisions of section 3121(k) (other than subparagraphs (B), (F), and (H) of section 3121(k)(1)) and the regulations thereunder (including the provisions requiring the payment of taxes under sections 3101 and 3111 with respect to the services involved), shall apply with respect to any certificate which is deemed to have been filed under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, in the same way they would apply if the certificate had been actually filed on that day under section 3121(k)(1).

(2) The provisions of section 3121(k)(1)(E) shall not apply unless the taxes described in paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section were paid by the organization as though a separate certificate had been filed with respect to one or both of the groups to which such provisions relate.

(3) The action of the organization in obtaining the refund or credit described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall not be considered a termination of such organization's coverage period for purposes of section 3121(k)(3).

(4) Any organization which is deemed to have filed a waiver certificate under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section shall be considered for purposes of section 3102(b) to have been required to deduct the taxes imposed by section 3101 with respect to the services involved.

[T.D. 7647, 44 FR 59524, Oct. 16, 1979]