##### ยง 31.3121(k)-2 Waivers of exemption; original effective date changed retroactively. #####

(a) *Certificates filed after 1955 and before August 29, 1958.* (1) An organization which filed a certificate under section 3121(k) after 1955 and before August 29, 1958, may file a request on Form SS-15b at any time before 1960 to have such certificate made effective, with respect to the services of individuals who concurred in the filing of such certificate (initially, or by signing a supplemental list on Form SS-15a Supplement which was filed before Aug. 29, 1958) and whose signatures also appeared on such request on Form SS-15b, for the period beginning with the first day of any calendar quarter after 1955 which preceded the first calendar quarter for which the certificate originally was effective.

(2) For purposes of computing interest and for purposes of section 6651 (relating to addition to tax for failure to file tax return), the due date for the return and payment of the tax for any calendar quarter resulting from the filing of a request referred to in paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall be the last day of the calendar month following the calendar quarter in which the request is filed. The statutory period for the assessment of such tax shall not expire before the expiration of 3 years from such due date.

(b) *Certificate filed before 1966.* (1) An organization which filed a certificate on Form SS-15 under section 3121(k)(1)(A) before January 1, 1966, may amend such certificate during 1965 or 1966 to make the certificate effective beginning with the first day of a calendar quarter preceding the date designated by the organization on the certificate (see paragraph (c)(2) of ยง 31.3121(k)-1). The amendment of the certificate shall be made by filing a Certificate For Retroactive Coverage on Form SS-15b. A certificate on Form SS-15 may be amended to be effective for the period beginning with the first day of any calendar quarter which precedes the calendar quarter for which the certificate was originally effective, except that such a certificate may not be made effective, through an amendment, for any calendar quarter which begins earlier than the 20th calendar quarter preceding the calendar quarter in which the organization files a Certificate For Retroactive Coverage on Form SS-15b. Thus, if a Certificate For Retroactive Coverage is filed in May 1966 in respect of a certificate on Form SS-15 filed in 1965, the certificate on Form SS-15 may not be made effective for a calendar quarter preceding the quarter beginning April 1, 1961. A certificate on Form SS-15 which is amended by a Certificate For Retroactive Coverage on Form SS-15b will be effective for the period preceding the first calendar quarter for which the certificate originally was effective only with respect to the services of individuals who concurred in the filing of the certificate (initially, or by signing a supplemental list on Form SS-15a Supplement which was filed prior to the date on which the Certificate For Retroactive Coverage was filed) and whose signatures also appear on the Certificate For Retroactive Coverage on Form SS-15b. A Certificate For Retroactive Coverage shall be filed with the district director with whom the related Form SS-15 was filed.

(2) For purposes of computing interest and for purposes of section 6651 (relating to addition to tax for failure to file tax return), the due date for the return and payment of the tax for any calendar quarter resulting from the filing of an amendment referred to in paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall be the last day of the calendar month following the calendar quarter in which the amendment is filed. The statutory period for the assessment of such tax shall not expire before the expiration of 3 years from such due date.

[T.D. 6983, 33 FR 18018, Dec. 4, 1968]