##### ยง 31.3121(b)(10)-1 Services for remuneration of less than $50 for calendar quarter in the employ of certain organizations exempt from income tax. #####

(a) Services performed by an employee in a calendar quarter in the employ of an organization exempt from income tax under section 501(a) (other than an organization described in section 401(a)) or under section 521 are excepted from employment if the remuneration for the services is less than $50. The test relating to remuneration of $50 is based on the remuneration earned during a calendar quarter rather than on the remuneration paid in a calendar quarter. The exception applies separately with respect to each organization for which the employee renders services in a calendar quarter. The type of services performed by the employee and the place where the services are performed are immaterial; the statutory tests are the character of the organization in the employ of which the services are performed and the amount of the remuneration for services performed by the employee in the calendar quarter. For provisions relating to exemption from income tax under section 501(a) or 521, see Part 1 of this chapter (Income Tax Regulations).

Example 1.X is a local lodge of a fraternal organization and is exempt from income tax under section 501(a) as an organization of the character described in section 501(c)(8). X has two paid employees, A, who serves exclusively as recording secretary for the lodge, and B, who performs services for the lodge as janitor of its clubhouse. For services performed during the first calendar quarter of 1955 (that is, January 1, 1955, through March 31, 1955, both dates inclusive) A earns a total of $30. For services performed by certain student quarter B earns $180. Since the remuneration for the services performed by A during such quarter is less than $50, all of such services are expected, and the taxes do not attach with respect to any of the remuneration for such services. Since the remuneration for the services performed by B during such quarter, however, is not less than $50, none of such services are excepted, and the taxes attached with respect to all of the remuneration for such services (that is, $180) as and when paid.Example 2.The facts are the same as in example 1, above, except that on April 1, 1955, A's salary is increased and, for services performed during the calendar quarter beginning on that date (that is, April 1, 1955, through June 30, 1955, both dates inclusive), A earns a total of $60. Although all of the services performed by A during the first quarter were excepted, none of A's services performed during the second quarter are excepted since the remuneration for such services is not less than $50. The taxes attach with respect to all of the remuneration for services performed during the second quarter (that is, $60) as and when paid.Example 3.The facts are the same as in example 1, above, except that A earns $120 for services performed during the year 1955, and such amount is paid to him in a lump sum at the end of the year. The services performed by A in any calendar quarter during the year are excepted if the portion of the $120 attributable to services performed in that quarter is less than $50. If, however, the portion of the $120 attributable to services performed in any calendar quarter during the year is not less than $50, the services during that quarter are not excepted, and the taxes attach with respect to that portion of the remuneration attributable to his services in that quarter.

(b) See ยง 31.3121(b)(8)-1, relating to services performed by a minister of a church in the exercise of his ministry or by a member of a religious order in the exercise of duties required by such order; ยง 31.3121(b)(10)-2, relating to services performed by certain students in the employ of a school, college, or university or of a nonprofit organization auxiliary to a school, college, or university; and ยง 31.3121(b)(13)-1, relating to services performed by certain student nurses and hospital interns.

[T.D. 6516, 25 FR 13032, Dec. 20, 1960; 25 FR 14021, Dec. 31, 1960, as amended by T.D. 7373, 40 FR 30958, July 24, 1975; T.D. 9849, 84 FR 9238, Mar. 14, 2019]