cfr/title-42-Public-Health/chapter-IV-Centers-Medicare-amp-Medicaid-Services-Department-Health-Human-Services/subchapter-B-Medicare-Program/part-405-Federal-Health-Insurance-Aged-Disabled/subpart-X-Rural-Health-Clinic-Federally-Qualified-Health-Center-Services/subjectgroup-ECFRb16e804c561ceb4-Payment-Rural-Health-Clinic-Federally-Qualified-Health-Center-Services/section-405.2469.md, before:

##### § 405.2469 FQHC supplemental payments. #####

Link to an amendment published at 86 FR 65662, Nov. 19, 2021.

(a) *Eligibility for supplemental payments.* FQHCs under contract (directly or indirectly) with MA organizations are eligible for supplemental payments for FQHC services furnished to enrollees in MA plans offered by the MA organization to cover the difference, if any, between their payments from the MA plan and what they would receive under one of the following:

(1) The PPS rate if the FQHC is authorized to bill under the PPS; or

(2) The Medicare outpatient per visit rate as set annually by the Indian Health Service for grandfathered tribal FQHCs.

(b) *Calculation of supplemental payment.* The supplemental payment for FQHC covered services provided to Medicare patients enrolled in MA plans is based on the difference between -

(1) Payments received by the FQHC from the MA plan as determined on a per visit basis and the FQHCs all-inclusive cost-based per visit rate as set forth in this subpart, less any amount the FQHC may charge as described in section 1857(e)(3)(B) of the Act; or

(2) Payments received by the FQHC from the MA plan as determined on a per visit basis and the FQHC PPS rate as set forth in this subpart, less any amount the FQHC may charge as described in section 1857(e)(3)(B) of the Act; or

(3) Payments received by the FQHC from the MA plan as determined on a per visit basis and the FQHC outpatient rate as set forth in this section under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, less any amount the FQHC may charge as described in section 1857(e)(3)(B) of the Act.

(c) *Financial incentives.* Any financial incentives provided to FQHCs under their MA contracts, such as risk pool payments, bonuses, or withholds, are prohibited from being included in the calculation of supplemental payments due to the FQHC.

(d) *Per visit supplemental payment.* A supplemental payment required under this section is made to the FQHC when a covered face-to-face encounter occurs between a MA enrollee and a practitioner as set forth in § 405.2463.

[79 FR 25479, May 2, 2014, as amended at 80 FR 71372, Nov. 16, 2015]

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2022-01-01 issue
Title: 12: Banks and Banking - Sections changed: 134
Title: 17: Commodity and Securities Exchanges - Sections changed: 3
Title: 44: Emergency Management and Assistance - Sections changed: 1
Title: 48: Federal Acquisition Regulations System - Sections changed: 9
Title: 26: Internal Revenue - Sections changed: 2
Title: 29: Labor - Sections changed: 10
Title: 37: Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights - Sections changed: 3
Title: 40: Protection of Environment - Sections changed: 14
Title: 42: Public Health - Sections changed: 161
Title: 45: Public Welfare - Sections changed: 9
Title: 47: Telecommunication - Sections changed: 1
Title: 50: Wildlife and Fisheries - Sections changed: 11

cfr/title-42-Public-Health/chapter-IV-Centers-Medicare-amp-Medicaid-Services-Department-Health-Human-Services/subchapter-B-Medicare-Program/part-405-Federal-Health-Insurance-Aged-Disabled/subpart-X-Rural-Health-Clinic-Federally-Qualified-Health-Center-Services/subjectgroup-ECFRb16e804c561ceb4-Payment-Rural-Health-Clinic-Federally-Qualified-Health-Center-Services/section-405.2469.md, after:

##### § 405.2469 FQHC supplemental payments. #####

(a) *Eligibility for supplemental payments.* FQHCs under contract (directly or indirectly) with MA organizations are eligible for supplemental payments for FQHC services furnished to enrollees in MA plans offered by the MA organization to cover the difference, if any, between their payments from the MA plan and what they would receive under one of the following:

(1) The PPS rate if the FQHC is authorized to bill under the PPS; or

(2) The Medicare outpatient per visit rate as set annually by the Indian Health Service for grandfathered tribal FQHCs.

(b) *Calculation of supplemental payment.* The supplemental payment for FQHC covered services provided to Medicare patients enrolled in MA plans is based on the difference between -

(1) Payments received by the FQHC from the MA plan as determined on a per visit basis and the FQHCs all-inclusive cost-based per visit rate as set forth in this subpart, less any amount the FQHC may charge as described in section 1857(e)(3)(B) of the Act; or

(2) Payments received by the FQHC from the MA plan as determined on a per visit basis and the FQHC PPS rate as set forth in this subpart, less any amount the FQHC may charge as described in section 1857(e)(3)(B) of the Act; or

(3) Payments received by the FQHC from the MA plan as determined on a per visit basis and the FQHC outpatient rate as set forth in this section under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, less any amount the FQHC may charge as described in section 1857(e)(3)(B) of the Act.

(c) *Financial incentives.* Any financial incentives provided to FQHCs under their MA contracts, such as risk pool payments, bonuses, or withholds, are prohibited from being included in the calculation of supplemental payments due to the FQHC.

(d) *Per visit supplemental payment.* A supplemental payment required under this section is made to the FQHC when a covered face-to-face encounter or an encounter furnished using interactive, real-time, audio and video telecommunications technology or audio-only interactions in cases where beneficiaries do not wish to use or do not have access to devices that permit a two-way, audio/video interaction for the purposes of diagnosis, evaluation or treatment of a mental health disorder occurs between a MA enrollee and a practitioner as set forth in § 405.2463. Additionally, there must be an in-person mental health service furnished within 6 months prior to the furnishing of the telecommunications service and that an in-person mental health service (without the use of telecommunications technology) must be provided at least every 12 months while the beneficiary is receiving services furnished via telecommunications technology for diagnosis, evaluation, or treatment of mental health disorders, unless, for a particular 12-month period, the physician or practitioner and patient agree that the risks and burdens outweigh the benefits associated with furnishing the in-person item or service, and the practitioner documents the reasons for this decision in the patient's medical record.

[79 FR 25479, May 2, 2014, as amended at 80 FR 71372, Nov. 16, 2015; 86 FR 65662, Nov. 19, 2021]
