cfr/title-07-Agriculture/subtitle-B-Regulations-Department-Agriculture/chapter-III-Animal-Plant-Health-Inspection-Service-Department-Agriculture/part-301-Domestic-Quarantine-Notices/subpart-K-South-American-Cactus-Moth/section-301.55-3.md, before:

##### § 301.55-3 Quarantined areas. #####

Link to an amendment published at 87 FR 80007, Dec. 29, 2022.

(a) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the Administrator will list as a quarantined area in paragraph (c) of this section each State, or each portion of a State, in which the South American cactus moth has been found by an inspector, in which the Administrator has reason to believe that the South American cactus moth is present, or that the Administrator considers necessary to quarantine because of its inseparability for quarantine enforcement purposes from localities where South American cactus moth has been found. Less than an entire State will be designated as a quarantined area only if the Administrator determines that:

(1) The State has adopted and is enforcing restrictions on the intrastate movement of the regulated articles that are equivalent to those imposed by this subpart on the interstate movement of regulated articles; and

(2) The designation of less than the entire State as a quarantined area will be adequate to prevent the interstate spread of the South American cactus moth.

(b) The Administrator or an inspector may temporarily designate any nonquarantined area in a State as a quarantined area in accordance with the criteria specified in paragraph (a) of this section. The Administrator will give a copy of this regulation along with written notice of the temporary designation to the owner or person in possession of the nonquarantined area, or, in the case of publicly owned land, to the person responsible for the management of the nonquarantined area. Thereafter, the interstate movement of any regulated article from an area temporarily designated as a quarantined area will be subject to this subpart. As soon as practicable, the area will be added to the list in paragraph (c) of this section or the designation will be terminated by the Administrator or an inspector. The owner or person in possession of, or, in the case of publicly owned land, the person responsible for the management of, an area for which designation is terminated will be given written notice of the termination as soon as practicable.

(c) The following areas are designated as quarantined areas: The States of Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi, and South Carolina.

[74 FR 27073, June 8, 2009, as amended at 75 FR 41074, July 15, 2010]

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2023-01-30 issue
Title: 7: Agriculture - Sections changed: 110
Title: 8: Aliens and Nationality - Sections changed: 1
Title: 16: Commercial Practices - Sections changed: 4
Title: 34: Education - Sections changed: 2
Title: 28: Judicial Administration - Sections changed: 1
Title: 29: Labor - Sections changed: 1
Title: 40: Protection of Environment - Sections changed: 6
Title: 43: Public Lands: Interior - Sections changed: 60
Title: 50: Wildlife and Fisheries - Sections changed: 3

cfr/title-07-Agriculture/subtitle-B-Regulations-Department-Agriculture/chapter-III-Animal-Plant-Health-Inspection-Service-Department-Agriculture/part-301-Domestic-Quarantine-Notices/subpart-K-South-American-Cactus-Moth/section-301.55-3.md, after:

##### § 301.55-3 Quarantined areas. #####

(a) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the Administrator will list as a quarantined area each State, or each portion of a State, in which the South American cactus moth has been found by an inspector, in which the Administrator has reason to believe that the South American cactus moth is present, or that the Administrator considers necessary to quarantine because of its inseparability for quarantine enforcement purposes from localities where South American cactus moth has been found. The Administrator will publish a list of all quarantined areas (the quarantine list) on the Plant Protection and Quarantine (PPQ) website at *www.aphis.usda.gov/aphis/ourfocus/planthealth/plant-pest-and-disease-programs/pests-and-diseases/sa\_insects/south-american-cactus-moth.* The list will include the date that the list was last updated. Lists of all quarantined areas may also be obtained by request from any local PPQ office; local offices are listed in telephone directories and on the internet at *www.aphis.usda.gov/aphis/ourfocus/planthealth/ppq-program-overview/sphd.* After a change is made to the list of quarantined areas, APHIS will publish a notice in the Federal Register informing the public that the change has occurred and describing the change to the quarantined areas. Less than an entire State will be designated as a quarantined area only if the Administrator determines that:

(1) The State has adopted and is enforcing restrictions on the intrastate movement of the regulated articles that are equivalent to those imposed by this subpart on the interstate movement of regulated articles; and

(2) The designation of less than the entire State as a quarantined area will be adequate to prevent the interstate spread of the South American cactus moth.

(b) The Administrator or an inspector may temporarily designate any nonquarantined area in a State as a quarantined area in accordance with the criteria specified in paragraph (a) of this section. The Administrator will give a copy of this subpart along with written notice of the temporary designation to the owner or person in possession of the nonquarantined area, or, in the case of publicly owned land, to the person responsible for the management of the nonquarantined area. Thereafter, the interstate movement of any regulated article from an area temporarily designated as a quarantined area will be subject to this subpart. As soon as practicable, the area will be added to the quarantine list or the designation will be terminated by the Administrator or an inspector. The owner or person in possession of, or, in the case of publicly owned land, the person responsible for the management of, an area for which designation is terminated will be given written notice of the termination as soon as practicable.

[87 FR 80007, Dec. 29, 2022]
