##### ยง 200.419 Cost accounting standards and disclosure statement. #####

(a) An IHE that receive an aggregate total $50 million or more in Federal awards and instruments subject to this subpart (as specified in ยง 200.101) in its most recently completed fiscal year must comply with the Cost Accounting Standards Board's cost accounting standards located at 48 CFR 9905.501, 9905.502, 9905.505, and 9905.506. CAS-covered contracts and subcontracts awarded to the IHEs are subject to the broader range of CAS requirements at 48 CFR 9900 through 9999 and 48 CFR part 30 (FAR Part 30).

(b) *Disclosure statement.* An IHE that receives an aggregate total $50 million or more in Federal awards and instruments subject to this subpart (as specified in ยง 200.101) during its most recently completed fiscal year must disclose their cost accounting practices by filing a Disclosure Statement (DS-2), which is reproduced in Appendix III to Part 200. With the approval of the cognizant agency for indirect costs, an IHE may meet the DS-2 submission by submitting the DS-2 for each business unit that received $50 million or more in Federal awards and instruments.

(1) The DS-2 must be submitted to the cognizant agency for indirect costs with a copy to the IHE's cognizant agency for audit. The initial DS-2 and revisions to the DS-2 must be submitted in coordination with the IHE's indirect (F&A) rate proposal, unless an earlier submission is requested by the cognizant agency for indirect costs. IHEs with CAS-covered contracts or subcontracts meeting the dollar threshold in 48 CFR 9903.202-1(f) must submit their initial DS-2 or revisions no later than prior to the award of a CAS-covered contract or subcontract.

(2) An IHE must maintain an accurate DS-2 and comply with disclosed cost accounting practices. An IHE must file amendments to the DS-2 to the cognizant agency for indirect costs in advance of a disclosed practice being changed to comply with a new or modified standard, or when a practice is changed for other reasons. An IHE may proceed with implementing the change after it has notified the Federal cognizant agency for indirect costs. If the change represents a variation from 2 CFR part 200, the change may require approval by the Federal cognizant agency for indirect costs, in accordance with ยง 200.102(b). Amendments of a DS-2 may be submitted at any time. Resubmission of a complete, updated DS-2 is discouraged except when there are extensive changes to disclosed practices.

(3) *Cost and funding adjustments.* Cost adjustments must be made by the cognizant agency for indirect costs if an IHE fails to comply with the cost policies in this part or fails to consistently follow its established or disclosed cost accounting practices when estimating, accumulating or reporting the costs of Federal awards, and the aggregate cost impact on Federal awards is material. The cost adjustment must normally be made on an aggregate basis for all affected Federal awards through an adjustment of the IHE's future F&A costs rates or other means considered appropriate by the cognizant agency for indirect costs. Under the terms of CAS covered contracts, adjustments in the amount of funding provided may also be required when the estimated proposal costs were not determined in accordance with established cost accounting practices.

(4) *Overpayments.* Excess amounts paid in the aggregate by the Federal Government under Federal awards due to a noncompliant cost accounting practice used to estimate, accumulate, or report costs must be credited or refunded, as deemed appropriate by the cognizant agency for indirect costs. Interest applicable to the excess amounts paid in the aggregate during the period of noncompliance must also be determined and collected in accordance with applicable Federal agency regulations.

(5) *Compliant cost accounting practice changes.* Changes from one compliant cost accounting practice to another compliant practice that are approved by the cognizant agency for indirect costs may require cost adjustments if the change has a material effect on Federal awards and the changes are deemed appropriate by the cognizant agency for indirect costs.

(6) *Responsibilities.* The cognizant agency for indirect cost must:

(i) Determine cost adjustments for all Federal awards in the aggregate on behalf of the Federal Government. Actions of the cognizant agency for indirect cost in making cost adjustment determinations must be coordinated with all affected Federal awarding agencies to the extent necessary.

(ii) Prescribe guidelines and establish internal procedures to promptly determine on behalf of the Federal Government that a DS-2 adequately discloses the IHE's cost accounting practices and that the disclosed practices are compliant with applicable CAS and the requirements of this part.

(iii) Distribute to all affected Federal awarding agencies any DS-2 determination of adequacy or noncompliance.

[78 FR 78608, Dec. 26, 2013, as amended at 79 FR 75886, Dec. 19, 2014; 85 FR 49564, Aug. 13, 2020]