##### § 1.175-4 Definition of “land used in farming.” #####

(a) *Requirements.* For purposes of section 175, the term *land used in farming* means land which is used in the business of farming and which meets both of the following requirements:

(1) The land must be used for the production of crops, fruits, or other agricultural products, including fish, or for the sustenance of livestock. The term *livestock* includes cattle, hogs, horses, mules, donkeys, sheep, goats, captive fur-bearing animals, chickens, turkeys, pigeons, and other poultry. Land used for the sustenance of livestock includes land used for grazing such livestock.

(2) The land must be or have been so used either by the taxpayer or his tenant at some time before or at the same time as, the taxpayer makes the expenditures for soil or water conservation or for the prevention of the erosion of land. The taxpayer will be considered to have used the land in farming before making such expenditure if he or his tenant has employed the land in a farming use in the past. If the expenditures are made by the taxpayer in respect of land newly acquired from one who immediately prior to the acquisition was using it in farming, the taxpayer will be considered to be using the land in farming at the time that such expenditures are made, if the use which is made by the taxpayer of the land from the time of its acquisition by him is substantially a continuation of its use in farming, whether for the same farming use as that of the taxpayer's predecessor or for one of the other uses specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.

(b) *Examples.* The provisions of paragraph (a) of this section may be illustrated by the following examples:

Example 1.A purchases an operating farm from B in the autumn after B has harvested his crops. Prior to spring plowing and planting when the land is idle because of the season, A makes certain soil and water conservation expenditures on this farm. At the time such expenditures are made the land is considered to be used by A in farming, and A may deduct such expenditures under section 175, subject to the other requisite conditions of such section.Example 2.C acquires uncultivated land, not previously used in farming, which he intends to develop for farming. Prior to putting this land into production it is necessary for C to clear brush, construct earthen terraces and ponds, and make other soil and water conservation expenditures. The land is not used in farming at the same time that such expenditures are made. Therefore, C may not deduct such expenditures under section 175.Example 3.D acquires several tracts of land from persons who had used such land immediately prior to D's acquisition for grazing cattle. D intends to use the land for growing grapes. In order to make the land suitable for this use, D constructs earthen terraces, builds drainage ditches and irrigation ditches, extensively treats the soil, and makes other soil and water conservation expenditures. The land is considered to be used in farming by D at the time he makes such expenditures, even though it is being prepared for a different type of farming activity than that engaged in by D's predecessors. Therefore, D may deduct such expenditures under section 175, subject to the other requisite conditions of such section.

(c) *Cross reference.* For rules relating to the allocation of expenditures that benefit both land used in farming and other land of the taxpayer, see § 1.175-7.

[T.D. 7740, 45 FR 78634, Nov. 26, 1980]