##### § 1.181-5 Examples. #####

The following examples illustrate the application of §§ 1.181-1 through 1.181-4:

Example 1.X, a corporation that uses an accrual method of accounting and files Federal income tax returns on a calendar-year basis, is a producer of films. X is the owner (within the meaning of § 1.181-1(a)(2)) of film ABC. X incurs production costs in year 1, but does not commence principal photography for film ABC until year 2. In year 1, X reasonably expects, based on all of the facts and circumstances, that film ABC will be set for production and will be a qualified film or television production. Provided that X satisfies all other requirements of §§ 1.181-1 through 1.181-4 and § 1.181-6, X may deduct in year 1 the production costs for film ABC that X incurred in year 1.Example 2.The facts are the same as in *Example 1.* In year 2, X begins, but does not complete, principal photography for film ABC. Most of the scenes that X films in year 2 are shot outside the United States and, as of December 31, year 2, less than 75 percent of the total compensation paid for film ABC is qualified compensation. Nevertheless, X still reasonably expects, based on all of the facts and circumstances, that film ABC will be a qualified film or television production. Provided that X satisfies all other requirements of §§ 1.181-1 through 1.181-4 and § 1.181-6, X may deduct in year 2 the production costs for film ABC that X incurred in year 2.Example 3.The facts are the same as in *Example 2.* In year 3, X continues, but does not complete, production of film ABC. Due to changes in the expected production costs of film ABC, X no longer expects film ABC to qualify under section 181. X files a statement with its return for year 3 identifying the film and stating that X revokes its election under section 181. X includes in income in year 3 the deductions claimed in year 1 and in year 2 as provided for in § 1.181-4(a)(3). X has successfully revoked its election pursuant to § 1.181-2(d).[T.D. 9551, 76 FR 60729, Sept. 30, 2011]