##### § 1.45G-1 Railroad track maintenance credit. #####

(a) *In general.* For purposes of section 38, the railroad track maintenance credit (RTMC) for qualified railroad track maintenance expenditures (QRTME) paid or incurred by an eligible taxpayer during the taxable year is determined under this section. A taxpayer claiming the RTMC must do so by filing Form 8900, “Qualified Railroad Track Maintenance Credit,” with its timely filed (including extensions) Federal income tax return for the taxable year the RTMC is claimed. Paragraph (b) of this section provides definitions of terms. Paragraph (c) of this section provides rules for computing the RTMC, including rules regarding limitations on the amount of the credit. Paragraph (d) of this section provides rules for assigning miles of railroad track. Paragraph (e) of this section contains rules for adjusting basis for the amount of the RTMC claimed by an eligible taxpayer. Paragraph (f) of this section contains rules for computing the amount of the RTMC in the case of a controlled group, and for the allocation of the group credit among members of the controlled group.

(b) *Definitions.* For purposes of section 45G and this section, the following definitions apply:

(1) *Class II railroad and Class III railroad* have the respective meanings given to these terms by the Surface Transportation Board (STB) without regard to the controlled group rules under section 45G(e)(2).

(2) *Eligible railroad track* is railroad track (as defined in paragraph (b)(9) of this section) located within the United States that is owned or leased by a Class II railroad or Class III railroad at the close of its taxable year. For purposes of section 45G and this section, a Class II railroad or Class III railroad owns railroad track if the railroad track is subject to the allowance for depreciation under section 167 by the Class II railroad or Class III railroad.

(3) *Eligible taxpayer* is -

(i) A Class II railroad or Class III railroad during the taxable year;

(ii) Any person that transports property using the rail facilities (as defined in paragraph (b)(6) of this section) of a Class II railroad or Class III railroad during the taxable year, but only is an eligible taxpayer with respect to the miles of eligible railroad track assigned to the person for that taxable year by that Class II railroad or Class III railroad under paragraph (d) of this section; or

(iii) Any person that furnishes railroad-related property (as defined in paragraph (b)(7) of this section) or railroad-related services (as defined in paragraph (b)(8) of this section), to a Class II railroad or Class III railroad during the taxable year, but only is an eligible taxpayer with respect to the miles of eligible railroad track assigned to the person for that taxable year by that Class II railroad or Class III railroad under paragraph (d) of this section.

(4) *Qualifying railroad structure* is property located within the United States that is described in the following STB property accounts in 49 CFR Part 1201, Subpart A:

(i) Property Account 3, Grading.

(ii) Property Account 4, Other right-of-way expenditures.

(iii) Property Account 5, Tunnels and subways.

(iv) Property Account 6, Bridges, trestles, and culverts.

(v) Property Account 7, Elevated structures.

(vi) Property Account 8, Ties.

(vii) Property Account 9, Rails and other track material.

(viii) Property Account 11, Ballast.

(ix) Property Account 13, Fences, snowsheds, and signs.

(x) Property Account 27, Signals and interlockers.

(xi) Property Account 39, Public improvements; construction.

(5) *Qualified railroad track maintenance expenditures (QRTME)* are expenditures for maintaining, repairing, and improving qualifying railroad structure (as defined in paragraph (b)(4) of this section) that is owned or leased as of January 1, 2005, by a Class II railroad or Class III railroad. These expenditures may or may not be chargeable to a capital account.

(6) *Rail facilities* of a Class II railroad or Class III railroad are railroad yards, tracks, bridges, tunnels, wharves, docks, stations, and other related assets that are used in the transport of freight by a railroad and that are owned or leased by the Class II railroad or Class III railroad.

(7) *Railroad-related property* is property that is provided directly to, and is unique to, a railroad and that, in the hands of a Class II railroad or Class III railroad, is described in -

(i) The following STB property accounts in 49 CFR Part 1201, Subpart A:

(A) Property Account 3, Grading;

(B) Property Account 5, Tunnels and subways;

(C) Property Account 22, Storage warehouses; and

(ii) Asset classes 40.1 through 40.54 in the guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service under section 168(i)(1) (for further guidance, for example, see Rev. Proc. 87-56 (1987-2 CB 674), and § 601.601(d)(2)(ii)(*b*) of this chapter), except that any office building, any passenger train car, and any miscellaneous structure if such structure is not provided directly to, and is not unique to, a railroad are excluded from the definition of railroad-related property.

(8) *Railroad-related services* are services that are provided directly to, and are unique to, a railroad and that relate to railroad shipping, loading and unloading of railroad freight, or repairs of rail facilities (as defined in paragraph (b)(6) of this section) or railroad-related property (as defined in paragraph (b)(7) of this section). Examples of railroad-related services are the transport of freight by rail; the loading and unloading of freight transported by rail; railroad bridge services; railroad track construction; providing railroad track material or equipment; locomotive leasing or rental; maintenance of railroad's right-of-way (including vegetation control); piggyback trailer ramping; rail deramping services; and freight train cars repair services. Examples of services that are not railroad-related services are general business services, such as, accounting and bookkeeping, marketing, legal services; janitorial services; office building rental; banking services (including financing of railroad-related property); and purchasing of, or services performed on, property not described in paragraph (b)(7) of this section.

(9) Except as provided in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, *railroad track* is property described in STB property accounts 8 (ties), 9 (rails and other track material), and 11 (ballast) in 49 CFR part 1201, Subpart A. *Double track* is treated as multiple lines of railroad track, rather than as a single line of railroad track. Thus, one mile of single track is one mile, but one mile of double track is two miles.

(10) *Form 8900.* If Form 8900 is revised or renumbered, any reference in this section to that form shall be treated as a reference to the revised or renumbered form.

(11) *Examples.* The application of this paragraph (b) is illustrated by the following examples. In all examples, the taxpayers use a calendar taxable year, and are not members of a controlled group.

Example 1.A is a manufacturer that in 2006, transports its products by rail using the railroad tracks owned by B, a Class II railroad that owns 500 miles of railroad track within the United States on December 31, 2006. B properly assigns for purposes of section 45G 100 miles of eligible railroad track to A in 2006. A is an eligible taxpayer for 2006 with respect to the 100 miles of eligible railroad track.Example 2.C is a bank that loans money to several Class III railroads. In 2006, C loans money to D, a Class III railroad, who in turn uses the loan proceeds to purchase track material. Because providing loans is not a service that is unique to a railroad, C is not providing railroad-related services and, thus, C is not an eligible taxpayer, even if D assigns miles of eligible railroad track to C for purposes of section 45G.Example 3.E leases locomotives directly to Class I, Class II, and Class III railroads. In 2006, E leases locomotives to F, a Class II railroad that owns 200 miles of railroad track within the United States on December 31, 2006. F properly assigns for purposes of section 45G 200 miles of eligible railroad track to E. Because locomotives are property that is unique to a railroad, and E leases these locomotives directly to F in 2006, E is an eligible taxpayer for 2006 with respect to the 200 miles of eligible railroad track assigned to E by F.Example 4.The facts are the same as in Example 3, except that E leases passenger trains, not locomotives, to F. Because passenger trains are not railroad-related property for purposes of section 45G, E is not an eligible taxpayer even if F assigns miles of eligible railroad track to E for purposes of section 45G.

(c) *Determination of amount of railroad track maintenance credit for the taxable year* - (1) *General amount.* Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, for purposes of section 38, the RTMC determined under section 45G(a) for the taxable year is equal to 50 percent of the QRTME paid or incurred (as determined under paragraph (c)(3) of this section) by an eligible taxpayer during the taxable year.

(2) *Limitation on the credit* - (i) *Eligible taxpayer is a Class II railroad or Class III railroad.* If an eligible taxpayer is a Class II railroad or Class III railroad, the RTMC determined under paragraph (c)(1) of this section for the Class II railroad or Class III railroad for any taxable year must not exceed $3,500 multiplied by the sum of -

(A) The number of miles of eligible railroad track owned or leased by the Class II railroad or Class III railroad, reduced by the number of miles of eligible railroad track assigned under paragraph (d) of this section by the Class II railroad or Class III railroad to another eligible taxpayer for that taxable year; and

(B) The number of miles of eligible railroad track owned or leased by another Class II railroad or Class III railroad that are assigned under paragraph (d) of this section to the Class II railroad or Class III railroad for the taxable year.

(ii) *Eligible taxpayer is not a Class II railroad or Class III railroad.* If an eligible taxpayer is not a Class II railroad or Class III railroad, the RTMC determined under paragraph (c)(1) of this section for the eligible taxpayer for any taxable year must not exceed $3,500 multiplied by the number of miles of eligible railroad track assigned under paragraph (d) of this section by a Class II railroad or Class III railroad to the eligible taxpayer for the taxable year.

(iii) *No carryover of amount that exceeds limitation.* Amounts that exceed the limitation under paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section or paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section, may never be carried over to another taxable year.

(3) *Determination of amount of QRTME paid or incurred* - (i) *In general.* The term *paid or incurred* means, in the case of a taxpayer using an accrual method of accounting, a liability incurred (within the meaning of § 1.446-1(c)(1)(ii)). A liability may not be taken into account under section 45G and this section prior to the taxable year during which the liability is incurred. Any amount that an eligible taxpayer (assignee) pays a Class II railroad or Class III railroad (assignor) in exchange for an assignment of one or more miles of eligible railroad track under paragraph (d) of this section, is treated, for purposes of this section, as QRTME paid or incurred by the assignee, and not by the assignor, at the time and to the extent the assignor pays or incurs QRTME.

(ii) *Effect of reimbursements received from persons other than a Class II or Class III railroad.* The amount of QRTME treated as paid or incurred during the taxable year by an eligible taxpayer under paragraphs (b)(3)(ii) and (iii) of this section shall be reduced by any amount to which the eligible taxpayer is entitled to be reimbursed, directly or indirectly, from persons other than a Class II or Class III railroad.

(4) *Examples.* The application of this paragraph (c) is illustrated by the following examples. In all examples, the taxpayers use an accrual method of accounting and a calendar taxable year, and are not members of a controlled group.

Example 1. Computation of RTMC; section 45G credit limitation is not exceeded.(i) G is a Class II railroad that owns or has leased to it 1,000 miles of railroad track within the United States on December 31, 2006. H is a manufacturer that in 2006, transports its products by rail using the rail facilities of G. In 2006, for purposes of section 45G, G assigns 100 miles of eligible railroad track to H and does not make any other assignments of railroad track miles. H did not receive any other assignments of railroad track miles in 2006. During 2006, G incurred QRTME in the amount of $2.5 million and H incurred QRTME in the amount of $200,000.

(ii) For 2006, G determines the tentative amount of RTMC under paragraph (c)(1) of this section to be $1,250,000 (50% multiplied by $2,500,000 QRTME incurred by G during 2006). G further determines G's credit limitation under paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section for 2006 to be $3,150,000 ($3,500 multiplied by 900 miles of eligible railroad track (1,000 miles owned by, or leased to, G on December 31, 2006, less 100 miles assigned by G to H in 2006)). Because G's tentative amount of RTMC does not exceed G's credit limitation amount for 2006, G may claim a RTMC for 2006 in the amount of $1,250,000.

(iii) For 2006, H determines the tentative amount of RTMC under paragraph (c)(1) of this section to be $100,000 (50% multiplied by $200,000 QRTME incurred by H during 2006). H further determines H's credit limitation under paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section for 2006 to be $350,000 ($3,500 multiplied by 100 miles of eligible railroad track assigned by G to H in 2006). Because H's tentative amount of RTMC does not exceed H's credit limitation amount for 2006, H may claim a RTMC in the amount of $100,000.

Example 2. Computation of RTMC; section 45G credit limitation is exceeded.(i) The facts are the same as in *Example 1*, except that G assigned for purposes of section 45G only 50 miles of railroad track to H in 2006 and, during 2006, H incurred QRTME in the amount of $400,000.

(ii) For 2006, G determines the tentative amount of RTMC under paragraph (c)(1) of this section to be $1,250,000 (50% multiplied by $2,500,000 QRTME incurred by G during 2006). G further determines G's credit limitation under paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section for 2006 to be $3,325,000 ($3,500 multiplied by 950 miles of eligible railroad track (1,000 miles owned by, or leased to, G on December 31, 2006, less 50 miles assigned by G to H in 2006)). Because G's tentative amount of RTMC does not exceed G's credit limitation amount for 2006, G may claim a RTMC in the amount of $1,250,000.

(iii) For 2006, H determines the tentative amount of RTMC under paragraph (c)(1) of this section to be $200,000 (50% multiplied by $400,000 QRTME incurred by H during 2006). H further determines H's credit limitation under paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section for 2006 to be $175,000 ($3,500 multiplied by 50 miles of eligible railroad track assigned by G to H in 2006). Because H's tentative amount of RTMC exceeds H's credit limitation amount for 2006, H may claim a RTMC in the amount of $175,000 (the credit limitation amount). Under paragraph (c)(2)(iii) of this section, there is no carryover of the $25,000 (the tentative amount of $200,000 less the credit limitation amount of $175,000) that exceeds the limitation.

Example 3. Railroad track miles assigned for payment.(i) J is a Class II railroad that owns or has leased to it 1,000 miles of railroad track within the United States on December 31, 2006. K is a corporation that sells ties, ballast, and other track material to Class I, Class II, and Class III railroads. During 2006, K sold these items to J and J incurred QRTME in the amount of $1 million. Also, on December 6, 2006, J assigned for purposes of section 45G 150 miles of eligible railroad track to K and K paid J $800,000 for that assignment. K did not pay or incur any other QRTME during 2006.

(ii) For 2006, in accordance with paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section, J is treated as having incurred QRTME in the amount of $200,000 ($1 million QRTME actually incurred by J less the $800,000 paid by K to J for the assignment of the railroad track miles in 2006). For 2006, J determines the tentative amount of RTMC under paragraph (c)(1) of this section to be $100,000 (50% multiplied by $200,000 QRTME treated as incurred by J during 2006). J further determines J's credit limitation amount under paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section for 2006 to be $2,975,000 ($3,500 multiplied by 850 miles of eligible railroad track (1,000 miles owned by, or leased to, J on December 31, 2006, less 150 miles assigned by J to K in 2006)). Because J's tentative amount of RTMC does not exceed J's credit limitation amount for 2006, J may claim a RTMC in the amount of $100,000.

(iii) For 2006, K is an eligible taxpayer because, during 2006, K provided railroad-related property to J and received an assignment of eligible railroad track miles from J. Under paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section, K is treated as having incurred QRTME in the amount of $800,000 (the amount paid by K to J for the assignment of the railroad track miles in 2006). For 2006, K determines the tentative amount of RTMC under paragraph (c)(1) of this section to be $400,000 (50% multiplied by $800,000 QRTME treated as incurred by K during 2006). K further determines K's credit limitation amount under paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section for 2006 to be $525,000 ($3,500 multiplied by 150 miles of eligible railroad track assigned by J in 2006). Because K's tentative amount of RTMC does not exceed K's credit limitation amount for 2006, K may claim a RTMC in the amount of $400,000.

(iv) The results in this *Example 3* would be the same if K sold the ties, ballast, and other track material with a fair market value of $1 million to J for $200,000 in exchange for the assignment by J of 150 miles of eligible railroad track to K.

Example 4. Reimbursement of QRTME.(i) L is a Class III railroad that owns or has leased to it 500 miles of railroad track within the United States on December 31, 2006. M is a manufacturer that in 2006 transports its products by rail using the rail facilities of L. During 2006, L did not incur any QRTME. Also, in 2006, L assigned for purposes of section 45G 200 miles of eligible railroad track to M and agreed to reduce L's freight shipping rates to M by $250,000 in exchange for M upgrading these railroad track miles. Consequently, during 2006, M incurred QRTME of $500,000 to upgrade these 200 miles of railroad track and L reduced L's freight shipping rates for M by $250,000.

(ii) For 2006, M is an eligible taxpayer because, during 2006, M transported property using the rail facilities of L and received an assignment of eligible railroad track miles from L. The amount of QRTME paid or incurred by M during 2006 is $500,000 and is not reduced by the reimbursement of $250,000 by L to M because, under paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section, QRTME is not reduced by reimbursements from Class II or Class III railroads. For 2006, M determines the tentative amount of RTMC under paragraph (c)(1) of this section to be $250,000 (50% multiplied by $500,000 QRTME incurred by M during 2006). M further determines M's credit limitation amount under paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section for 2006 to be $700,000 ($3,500 multiplied by 200 miles of eligible railroad track assigned by L to M in 2006). Because M's tentative amount of RTMC does not exceed M's credit limitation amount for 2006, M may claim a RTMC in the amount of $250,000.

(d) *Assignment of track miles* - (1) *In general.* An assignment of any mile of eligible railroad track under this paragraph (d) is a designation by a Class II railroad or Class III railroad that is made solely for purposes of section 45G and this section of a specific number of miles of eligible railroad track as being assigned to another eligible taxpayer for a taxable year. A designation must be in writing and must include the name and taxpayer identification number of the assignee, and the information required under the rules of paragraph (d)(4)(iii)(B) of this section. A designation requires no transfer of legal title or other indicia of ownership of the eligible railroad track, and need not specify the location of any assigned mile of eligible railroad track. Further, an assigned mile of eligible railroad track need not correspond to any specific mile of eligible railroad track with respect to which the eligible taxpayer actually pays or incurs the QRTME.

(2) *Assignment eligibility.* Only a Class II railroad or Class III railroad may assign a mile of eligible railroad track. If a Class II railroad or Class III railroad assigns a mile of eligible railroad track to an eligible taxpayer, the assignee is not permitted to reassign any mile of eligible railroad track to another eligible taxpayer. The maximum number of miles of eligible railroad track that may be assigned by a Class II railroad or Class III railroad for any taxable year is its total miles of eligible railroad track less the miles of eligible railroad track that the Class II railroad or Class III railroad retains for itself in determining its RTMC for the taxable year.

(3) *Effective date of assignment.* If a Class II railroad or Class III railroad assigns a mile of eligible railroad track, the assignment is treated as being made by the Class II railroad or Class III railroad at the close of its taxable year in which the assignment was made. With respect to the assignee, the assignment of a mile of eligible railroad track is taken into account for the taxable year of the assignee that includes the date the assignment is treated as being made by the assignor Class II railroad or Class III railroad under this paragraph (d)(3).

(4) *Assignment information statement* - (i) *In general.* A taxpayer must file Form 8900, “Qualified Railroad Track Maintenance Credit,” with its timely filed (including extensions) Federal income tax return for the taxable year for which the taxpayer assigns any mile of eligible railroad track, even if the taxpayer is not itself claiming the RTMC for that taxable year.

(ii) *Assignor.* Except as provided in paragraph (d)(4)(iv) of this section, a Class II railroad or Class III railroad (assignor) that assigns one or more miles of eligible railroad track during a taxable year to one or more eligible taxpayers must attach to the assignor's Form 8900 for that taxable year an information statement providing -

(A) The name and taxpayer identification number of each assignee;

(B) The total number of miles of the assignor's eligible railroad track;

(C) The number of miles of eligible railroad track assigned by the assignor to each assignee for the taxable year; and

(D) The total number of miles of eligible railroad track assigned by the assignor to all assignees for the taxable year.

(iii) *Assignee.* Except as provided in paragraph (d)(4)(iv) of this section, an eligible taxpayer (assignee) that has received an assignment of miles of eligible railroad track during its taxable year from a Class II railroad or Class III railroad, and that claims the RTMC for that taxable year, must attach to the assignee's Form 8900 for that taxable year a statement -

(A) Providing the total number of miles of eligible railroad track assigned to the assignee for the assignee's taxable year; and

(B) Attesting that the assignee has in writing, and has retained as part of the assignee's records for purposes of § 1.6001-1(a), the following information from each assignor:

(*1*) The name and taxpayer identification number of each assignor.

(*2*) The date of each assignment made by each assignor (as determined under paragraph (d)(3) of this section) to the assignee;

(*3*) The number of miles of eligible railroad track assigned by each assignor to the assignee for the assignee's taxable year.

(iv) *Special rules for returns filed prior to November 9, 2007.* If an eligible taxpayer's Federal income tax return for a taxable year beginning after December 31, 2004, and ending before November 9, 2007, was filed before December 13, 2007, and the eligible taxpayer is not filing an amended Federal income tax return for that taxable year pursuant to paragraph (g)(2) of this section before the eligible taxpayer's next filed original Federal income tax return, and the eligible taxpayer wants to apply paragraph (g)(2) of this section but did not include with that return the information specified in paragraph (d)(4)(ii) or (iii) of this section, as applicable, the eligible taxpayer must attach a statement containing the information specified in paragraph (d)(4)(ii) or (iii) of this section, as applicable, to either -

(A) The eligible taxpayer's next filed original Federal income tax return; or

(B) The eligible taxpayer's amended Federal income tax return that is filed pursuant to paragraph (g)(2) of this section, provided that amended Federal income tax return is filed by the eligible taxpayer before its next filed original Federal income tax return.

(5) *Special rules* - (i) *Effect of subsequent dispositions of eligible railroad track during the assignment year.* If a Class II railroad or Class III railroad assigns one or more miles of eligible railroad track that it owned or leased as of the actual date of the assignment, but does not own or lease any eligible railroad track at the close of the taxable year in which the assignment is made by the Class II railroad or Class III railroad, the assignment is not valid for that taxable year for purposes of section 45G and this section.

(ii) *Effect of multiple assignments of eligible railroad track miles during the same taxable year.* If a Class II railroad or Class III railroad assigns more miles of eligible railroad track than it owned or leased as of the close of the taxable year in which the assignment is made by the Class II railroad or Class III railroad, the assignment is valid for purposes of section 45G and this section only with respect to the name of the assignee and the number of miles listed by the assignor Class II railroad or Class III railroad on the statement required under paragraph (d)(4)(ii) of this section and only to the extent of the maximum miles of eligible railroad track that may be assigned by the assignor Class II railroad or Class III railroad as determined under paragraph (d)(2) of this section. If the total number of miles on this statement exceeds the maximum miles of eligible railroad track that may be assigned by the assignor Class II railroad or Class III railroad (as determined under paragraph (d)(2) of this section), the total number of miles on the statement shall be reduced by the excess amount of miles. This reduction is allocated among each assignee listed on the statement in proportion to the total number of miles listed on the statement for that assignee.

(6) *Examples.* The application of this paragraph (d) is illustrated by the following examples. In none of the examples are the taxpayers members of a controlled group:

Example 1. Assignor and assignee have the same taxable year.(i) N, a calendar year taxpayer, is a Class II railroad that owns 500 miles of railroad track within the United States on December 31, 2006. O, a calendar year taxpayer, is not a railroad, but is a taxpayer that provides railroad-related property to N during 2006. On November 7, 2006, N assigns for purposes of section 45G 300 miles of eligible railroad track to O. O receives no other assignment of eligible railroad track in 2006. O pays or incurs QRTME in the amount of $100,000 in November 2006, and $50,000 in February 2007. N and O each file Form 8900 with their timely filed Federal income tax returns for 2006 and attach the statement required by paragraph (d)(4)(ii) and (iii), respectively, of this section reporting the assignment of the 300 miles of eligible railroad track to O.

(ii) The assignment of the 300 miles of eligible railroad track made by N to O on November 7, 2006, is treated as made on December 31, 2006 (at the close of the N's taxable year). Consequently, the assignment is taken into account by O for O's taxable year ending on December 31, 2006. For 2006, O is an eligible taxpayer because, during 2006, O provides railroad-related property to N and receives an assignment of 300 eligible railroad track miles from N. For 2006, O determines the tentative amount of RTMC under paragraph (c)(1) of this section to be $50,000 (50% multiplied by $100,000 QRTME paid or incurred by O during 2006). O further determines the credit limitation amount under paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section for 2006 to be $1,050,000 ($3,500 multiplied by 300 miles of eligible railroad track assigned by N to O on December 31, 2006). Because O's tentative amount of RTMC does not exceed O's credit limitation amount for 2006, O may claim a RMTC for 2006 in the amount of $50,000.

Example 2. Assignor and assignee have different taxable years.(i) The facts are the same as in *Example 1,* except that O's taxable year ends on March 31.

(ii) The assignment of the 300 miles of eligible railroad track made by N to O on November 7, 2006, is treated as made on December 31, 2006. As a result, the assignment is taken into account by O for O's taxable year ending on March 31, 2007. Thus, for the taxable year ending on March 31, 2007, O determines the tentative amount of RMTC under paragraph (c)(1) of this section to be $75,000 (50% multiplied by $150,000 QRTME incurred by O during its taxable year ending March 31, 2007). Because O's tentative amount of RTMC does not exceed O's credit limitation amount for the taxable year ending March 31, 2007, O may claim a RMTC for the taxable year ending March 31, 2007, in the amount of $75,000.

Example 3. Assignment location differs from QRTME location.(i) P, a calendar-year taxpayer, is a Class III railroad that owns or has leased to it 200 miles of railroad track within the United States on December 31, 2006. P owns 50 miles of this railroad track and leases 150 miles of this railroad track from Q, a Class I railroad. On February 8, 2006, P assigns for purposes of section 45G 50 miles of eligible railroad track to R. R is not a railroad, but is a taxpayer that ships products using the 50 miles of eligible railroad track owned by P, and R paid $100,000 in 2006 to P to enable P to upgrade these 50 miles of eligible railroad track. In March 2006, P also assigns for purposes of section 45G 150 miles of eligible railroad track to S. S is not a railroad, but is a taxpayer that provides railroad-related property to P, and S paid $400,000 to P to enable P to upgrade P's 200 miles of eligible railroad track. For 2006, P pays or incurs QRTME in the amount of $500,000 to upgrade the 150 miles of eligible railroad track that it leases from Q and pays or incurs no QRTME on the 50 miles of eligible railroad track that it owns. For 2006, P receives no other assignment of eligible railroad track miles and did not retain any eligible railroad track miles for itself. Also, R and S do not pay or incur any other amounts that would qualify as QRTME during 2006. P, R, and S each file Form 8900 with their timely filed Federal income tax returns for 2006 and attach the statement required by paragraph (d)(4) (ii) or (iii) of this section, whichever applies, reporting the assignment of eligible railroad track by P to R or S in 2006.

(ii) For 2006, in accordance with paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section, P is treated as having incurred QRTME in the amount of $0 ($500,000 QRTME actually incurred by P less the $100,000 paid by R to P for the assignment of the 50 miles of eligible railroad track and the $400,000 paid by S to P for the assignment of the 150 miles of eligible railroad track). Further, P assigned all of its eligible railroad track miles to R and S for 2006. Accordingly, for 2006, P may not claim any RTMC.

(iii) For 2006, R is an eligible taxpayer because, during 2006, R ships property using the rail facilities of P and receives an assignment of 50 eligible railroad track miles from P. In accordance with paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section, R is treated as having incurred QRTME in the amount of $100,000 (the amount paid by R to P for the assignment of the eligible railroad track miles in 2006) even though no work was performed on the 50 miles of eligible railroad track that was assigned by P to R. For 2006, R determines the tentative amount of RTMC under paragraph (c)(1) of this section to be $50,000 (50% multiplied by $100,000 QRTME treated as incurred by R during 2006). R further determines the credit limitation amount under paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section to be $175,000 ($3,500 multiplied by 50 miles of eligible railroad track assigned by P to R in 2006). Because R's tentative amount of RTMC does not exceed R's credit limitation amount for 2006, R may claim a RTMC for 2006 in the amount of $50,000.

(iv) For 2006, S is an eligible taxpayer because, during 2006, S provides railroad-related property to P and receives an assignment of 150 eligible railroad track miles from P. In accordance with paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section, S is treated as having incurred QRTME in the amount of $400,000 (amount paid by S to P for the assignment of the eligible railroad track miles in 2006). For 2006, S determines the tentative amount of RTMC under paragraph (c)(1) of this section to be $200,000 (50% multiplied by $400,000 QRTME treated as incurred by S during 2006). S further determines the credit limitation amount under paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section to be $525,000 ($3,500 multiplied by 150 miles of eligible railroad track assigned by P to S in 2006). Because S's tentative amount of RTMC does not exceed S's credit limitation amount for 2006, S may claim a RTMC for 2006 in the amount of $200,000.

Example 4. Multiple assignments of track miles.(i) T, a calendar-year taxpayer, is a Class III railroad that owns or has leased to it 200 miles of railroad track within the United States on December 31, 2006. T owns 75 miles of this railroad track and leases 125 miles of this railroad track from U, a Class I railroad. V and W are not railroads, but are both taxpayers that provide railroad-related services to T during 2006. On January 15, 2006, T assigns for purposes of section 45G 200 miles of eligible railroad track to V. V agrees to incur, in 2006, $1.4 million of QRTME to upgrade a portion of/segment of these 200 miles of eligible railroad track. Due to unexpected financial difficulties, V only incurs $250,000 of QRTME during 2006 and on May 15, 2006, T learns that V is unable to incur the remainder of the QRTME. On June 15, 2006, T assigns for purposes of section 45G the 200 miles of railroad track to W. In 2006, W incurs $1,100,000 of QRTME to upgrade a portion of/segment of the railroad track. For 2006, T receives no other assignment of eligible railroad track miles and did not retain any eligible railroad track miles for itself. V and W do not receive any other assignments of miles of eligible railroad track miles from a Class II railroad or Class III railroad during 2006. T and W each file Form 8900 with their timely filed Federal income tax returns for 2006, and attach the statement required by paragraph (d)(4) (ii) and (iii), respectively, of this section, reporting the assignment of 200 miles of eligible railroad track to W.

(ii) Because T did not retain any miles of eligible railroad track for itself for 2006, the maximum miles of eligible railroad track that may be assigned by T for 2006 is 200 miles pursuant to paragraph (d)(2) of this section. On the statement required by paragraph (d)(4)(ii) of this section, T assigned a total of 200 miles of eligible railroad track to W. Consequently, because T did not list V as an assignee on T's statement required by paragraph (d)(4)(ii) of this section, V did not receive an assignment of eligible railroad track miles from T during 2006 and V is not an eligible taxpayer for 2006. Thus, for 2006, V may not claim any RTMC even though V incurred QRTME in the amount of $250,000.

(iii) For 2006, W is an eligible taxpayer because, during 2006, W provides railroad-related services to T and receives an assignment of 200 eligible railroad track miles from T. W determines the tentative amount of RTMC under paragraph (c)(1) of this section to be $550,000 (50% multiplied by $1,100,000 QRTME incurred by W during 2006). W further determines the credit limitation amount under paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section to be $700,000 ($3,500 multiplied by the 200 miles of eligible railroad track assigned by T to W in 2006). Because W's tentative amount of RTMC does not exceed W's credit limitation amount for 2006, W may claim a RTMC for 2006 in the amount of $550,000.

Example 5. Multiple assignments of track miles.(i) Same facts as in *Example 4,* except T, to its Form 8900 for 2006, attaches the statement required by paragraph (d)(4)(ii) of this section assigning 200 miles of eligible railroad track to W and 200 miles of eligible railroad track to V.

(ii) Because T did not retain any miles of eligible railroad track for itself for 2006, the maximum miles of eligible railroad track that may be assigned by T for 2006 is 200 miles pursuant to paragraph (d)(2) of this section. However, on the statement required by paragraph (d)(4)(ii) of this section, T assigned a total of 400 miles of eligible railroad track (200 miles to W and 200 miles to V). Consequently, the 400 miles of eligible railroad track on this statement must be reduced to the 200 maximum miles of eligible railroad track available for assignment for 2006. Because the statement reports 200 miles of eligible railroad track assigned to each W and V, the reduction of 200 miles (400 total miles of eligible railroad track on the statement less 200 maximum miles of eligible railroad track available for assignment) is allocated pro-rata between W and V and, therefore, 100 miles each to W and V. Thus, pursuant to paragraph (d)(5)(ii) of this section, the number of miles of eligible railroad track assigned by T to W and V for 2006 is 100 miles each.

(iii) For 2006, V is an eligible taxpayer because, during 2006, V provides railroad-related services to T and receives an assignment of 100 eligible railroad track miles from T. V determines the tentative amount of RTMC under paragraph (c)(1) of this section to be $125,000 (50% multiplied by $250,000 QRTME incurred by V during 2006). V further determines the credit limitation amount under paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section to be $350,000 ($3,500 multiplied by the 100 miles of eligible railroad track assigned by T to V in 2006). Because V's tentative amount of RTMC does not exceed W's credit limitation amount for 2006, V may claim a RTMC for 2006 in the amount of $125,000.

(iv) For 2006, W is an eligible taxpayer because, during 2006, W provides railroad-related services to T and receives an assignment of 100 eligible railroad track miles from T. W determines the tentative amount of RTMC under paragraph (c)(1) of this section to be $550,000 (50% multiplied by $1,100,000 QRTME incurred by W during 2006). W further determines the credit limitation amount under paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section to be $350,000 ($3,500 multiplied by the 100 miles of eligible railroad track assigned by T to W in 2006). Because W's tentative amount of RTMC exceeds W's credit limitation amount for 2006, W may claim a RTMC for 2006 in the amount of $350,000 (the credit limitation). There is no carryover of the amount of $200,000 (the tentative amount of $550,000 less the credit limitation amount of $350,000).

(e) *Adjustments to basis* - (1) *In general.* All or some of the QRTME paid or incurred by an eligible taxpayer during the taxable year may be required to be capitalized under section 263(a) as a tangible asset or as an intangible asset. See, for example, § 1.263(a)-4(d)(8), which requires capitalization of amounts paid or incurred by a taxpayer to produce or improve real property owned by another (except to the extent the taxpayer is selling services at fair market value to produce or improve the real property) if the real property can reasonably be expected to produce significant economic benefits for the taxpayer. The basis of the tangible asset or intangible asset includes the capitalized amount of the QRTME.

(2) *Basis adjustment made to railroad track.* An eligible taxpayer must reduce the adjusted basis of any railroad track with respect to which the eligible taxpayer claims the RTMC. For purposes of section 45G(e)(3) and this paragraph (e)(2), the adjusted basis of any railroad track with respect to which the eligible taxpayer claims the RTMC is limited to the amount of QRTME, if any, that is required to be capitalized into the qualifying railroad structure or an intangible asset. The adjusted basis of the railroad track is reduced by the amount of the RTMC allowable (as determined under paragraph (c) of this section) by the eligible taxpayer for the taxable year, but not below zero. This reduction is taken into account at the time the QRTME is paid or incurred by an eligible taxpayer and before the depreciation deduction with respect to such railroad track is determined for the taxable year for which the RTMC is allowable. If all or some of the QRTME paid or incurred by an eligible taxpayer during the taxable year is capitalized under section 263(a) to more than one asset, whether tangible or intangible (for example, railroad track and bridges), the reduction to the basis of these assets under this paragraph (e)(2) is allocated among each of the assets subject to the reduction in proportion to the unadjusted basis of each asset at the time the QRTME is paid or incurred during that taxable year.

(3) *Examples.* The application of this paragraph (e) is illustrated by the following examples. In each example, all taxpayers use a calendar taxable year, and no taxpayers are members of a controlled group.

Example 1.(i) X is a Class II railroad that owns 500 miles of railroad track within the United States on December 31, 2006. During 2006, X incurs $1 million of QRTME for maintaining this railroad track. X uses the track maintenance allowance method for track structure expenditures (for further guidance, see Rev. Proc. 2002-65 (2002-2 CB 700) and § 601.601(d)(2)(ii)(*b*) of this chapter). Assume all of the $1 million QRTME is track structure expenditures and none of it was expended for new track structure.

(ii) For 2006, X determines the tentative amount of RTMC under paragraph (c)(1) of this section to be $500,000 (50% multiplied by $1 million QRTME incurred by X during 2006). X further determines the credit limitation amount under paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section for 2006 to be $1,750,000 ($3,500 multiplied by 500 miles of eligible railroad track). Because X's tentative amount of RTMC does not exceed X's credit limitation amount for 2006, X may claim a RTMC for 2006 in the amount of $500,000.

(iii) Of the $1 million QRTME incurred by X during 2006, X determines under the track maintenance allowance method that $750,000 is the track maintenance allowance under section 162 and $250,000 is the capitalized amount for the track structure. In accordance with paragraph (e)(2) of this section, X reduces the capitalized amount of $250,000 by the RTMC of $500,000 claimed by X for 2006, but not below zero. Thus, the capitalized amount of $250,000 is reduced to zero. X also deducts under section 162 a track maintenance allowance of $750,000 on its 2006 Federal income tax return.

Example 2.(i) Y is a Class II railroad that owns or has leased to it 500 miles of eligible railroad track within the United States on December 31, 2006. Z is not a railroad, but is a taxpayer that, in 2006, transports its products using the rail facilities of Y. In 2006, Y assigns for purposes of section 45G 300 miles of eligible railroad track to Z. Z does not receive any other assignments of eligible railroad track miles in 2006. During 2006, Z incurs QRTME in the amount of $1 million, and Y does not incur any QRTME. Y and Z each file Form 8900 with their timely filed Federal income tax returns for 2006 and attach the statement required by paragraph (d)(4)(ii) and (iii), respectively, of this section reporting the assignment of the 300 miles of eligible railroad track to Z.

(ii) For 2006, Z determines the tentative amount of RTMC under paragraph (c)(1) of this section to be $500,000 (50% multiplied by $1 million QRTME incurred by Z during 2006). Z further determines the credit limitation amount under paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section for 2006 to be $1,050,000 ($3,500 multiplied by 300 miles of eligible railroad track assigned by Y to Z in 2006). Because Z's tentative amount of RTMC does not exceed Z's credit limitation amount for 2006, Z may claim a RTMC for 2006 in the amount of $500,000.

(iii) For 2006, Z also must determine the portion of the $1 million QRTME that Z incurs that is required to be capitalized under section 263(a), and the portion that is a section 162 expense. Because Z is not a Class II railroad or Class III railroad, Z cannot use the track maintenance allowance method. Assume that all of the QRTME constitutes an intangible asset under § 1.263(a)-4(d)(8) and, therefore, is required to be capitalized by Z under section 263(a) as an intangible asset. In accordance with paragraph (e)(2) of this section, Z reduces the capitalized amount of $1 million by the RTMC of $500,000 claimed by Z for 2006. Thus, the capitalized amount of $1 million for the intangible asset is reduced to $500,000. Further, pursuant to § 1.167(a)-3(b)(1)(iv), Z may treat this intangible asset with an adjusted basis of $500,000 as having a useful life of 25 years for purposes of the depreciation allowance under section 167(a).

(f) *Controlled groups* - (1) *In general.* Pursuant to section 45G(e)(2), if an eligible taxpayer is a member of a controlled group of corporations, rules similar to the rules in § 1.41-6T apply for determining the amount of the RTMC under section 45G(a) and this section. To determine the amount of RTMC (if any) allowable to a trade or business that at the end of its taxable year is a member of a controlled group, a taxpayer must -

(i) Compute the group credit in the manner described in paragraph (f)(3) of this section; and

(ii) Allocate the group credit among the members of the group in the manner described in paragraph (f)(4) of this section.

(2) *Definitions.* For purposes of section 45G(e)(2) and paragraph (f) of this section -

(i) A *trade or business* is a sole proprietorship, a partnership, a trust, an estate, or a corporation that is carrying on a trade or business (within the meaning of section 162). Any corporation that is a member of a commonly controlled group shall be deemed to be carrying on a trade or business if any other member of that group is carrying on any trade or business;

(ii) *Group* and *controlled group* means a controlled group of corporations, as defined in section 41(f)(5), or a group of trades or businesses under common control. For rules for determining whether trades or businesses are under common control, see § 1.52-1(b) through (g);

(iii) *Group credit* means the RTMC (if any) allowable to a controlled group;

(iv) *Consolidated group* has the meaning set forth in § 1.1502-1(h); and

(v) *Credit year* means the taxable year for which the member is computing the RTMC.

(3) *Computation of the group credit.* All members of a controlled group are treated as a single taxpayer for purposes of computing the RTMC. The group credit is computed by applying all of the section 45G computational rules (including the rules set forth in this section) on an aggregate basis.

(4) [Reserved]. For further guidance, see § 1.45G-1T(f)(4).

(5) [Reserved]. For further guidance, see § 1.45G-1T(f)(5).

(6) *Tax accounting periods used* - (i) *In general.* The credit allowable to a member of a controlled group is that member's share of the group credit computed as of the end of that member's taxable year. In computing the group credit for a group whose members have different taxable years, a member generally should treat the taxable year of another member that ends with or within the credit year of the computing member as the credit year of that other member. For example, Q, R, and S are members of a controlled group of corporations. Both Q and R are calendar year taxpayers. S files a return using a fiscal year ending June 30. For purposes of computing the group credit at the end of Q's and R's taxable year on December 31, S's fiscal year ending June 30, which ends within Q's and R's taxable year, is treated as S's credit year.

(ii) *Special rule when timing of QRTME is manipulated.* If the timing of QRTME by members using different tax accounting periods is manipulated to generate a credit in excess of the amount that would be allowable if all members of the group used the same tax accounting period, then the appropriate Internal Revenue Service official in the operating division that has examination jurisdiction of the return may require each member of the group to calculate the credit in the current taxable year and all future years as if all members of the group had the same taxable year and base period as the computing member.

(7) *Membership during taxable year in more than one group.* A trade or business may be a member of only one group for a taxable year. If, without application of this paragraph (f)(7), a business would be a member of more than one group at the end of its taxable year, the business shall be treated as a member of the group in which it was included for its preceding taxable year. If the business was not included for its preceding taxable year in any group in which it could be included as of the end of its taxable year, the business shall designate in its timely filed (including extensions) federal income tax return for the taxable year the group in which it is being included. If the business does not so designate, then the appropriate Internal Revenue Service official in the operating division that has examination jurisdiction of the return will determine the group in which the business is to be included. If the Federal income tax return for a taxable year beginning after December 31, 2004, and ending before November 9, 2007, was filed before December 13, 2007, and the business wants to apply paragraph (g)(2) of this section but did not designate its group membership in that return, the business must designate its group membership for that year either -

(i) In its next filed original Federal income tax return; or

(ii) In its amended Federal income tax return that is filed pursuant to paragraph (g)(2) of this section, provided that amended Federal income tax return is filed by the business before its next filed original Federal income tax return.

(8) *Intra-group transactions* - (i) *In general.* Because all members of a group under common control are treated as a single taxpayer for purposes of determining the RTMC, transfers between members of the group are generally disregarded.

(ii) *Payment for QRTME.* Amounts paid or incurred by the owner (or lessor) of eligible railroad track to another member of the group for QRTME shall be taken into account as QRTME by the owner (or lessor) of the eligible railroad track for purposes of section 45G only to the extent of the lesser of -

(A) The amount paid or incurred to the other member; or

(B) The amount that would have been considered paid or incurred by the other member for the QRTME, if the QRTME was not reimbursed by the owner (or lessor) of the eligible railroad track.

(g) *Effective/applicability date* - (1) *In general.* Except as provided in paragraphs (g)(2) and (g)(3) of this section, this section applies to taxable years ending on or after September 7, 2006.

(2) *Taxable years ending before September 7, 2006.* A taxpayer may apply this section to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2004, and ending before September 7, 2006, provided that the taxpayer applies all provisions in this section to the taxable year.

(3) *Special rules for returns filed prior to November 9, 2007.* If a taxpayer's Federal income tax return for a taxable year beginning after December 31, 2004, and ending before November 9, 2007, was filed before December 13, 2007, and the taxpayer is not filing an amended Federal income tax return for that taxable year pursuant to paragraph (g)(2) of this section before the taxpayer's next filed original Federal income tax return, see paragraphs (d)(4)(iv) and (f)(7) of this section for the statements that must be attached to the taxpayer's next filed original Federal income tax return.

(4) *Taxable years beginning after December 31, 2011.* [Reserved]. For further guidance, see § 1.45G-1T(g)(4).

(5) *Taxable years beginning before January 1, 2012.* [Reserved]. For further guidance, see § 1.45G-1T(g)(4).

[T.D. 9365, 72 FR 63816, Nov. 13, 2007, as amended by T.D. 9717, 80 FR 18098, Apr. 3, 2015; 80 FR 23238, Apr. 27, 2015]