cfr/title-46-Shipping/chapter-IV-Federal-Maritime-Commission/subchapter-B-Regulations-Affecting-Ocean-Shipping-Foreign-Commerce/part-515-Licensing-Registration-Financial-Responsibility-Requirements-General-Duties-Ocean-Transportation-Intermediaries/subpart-C-Financial-Responsibility-Requirements-Claims-Against-Ocean-Transportation-Intermediaries/section-515.27.md, before:

##### § 515.27 Proof of compliance - NVOCC. #####

(a) No common carrier shall knowingly and willfully transport cargo for the account of an NVOCC unless the carrier has determined that the NVOCC has a license or registration, a tariff, and financial responsibility as required by sections 8 (46 U.S.C. 40501-40503) and 19 (46 U.S.C. 40901-40904) of the Shipping Act and this part.

(b) A common carrier can obtain proof of an NVOCC's compliance with the OTI licensing, registration, tariff and financial responsibility requirements by:

(1) Consulting the Commission's Web site *www.fmc.gov* as provided in paragraph (d) below, to verify that the NVOCC has complied with the applicable licensing, registration, tariff, and financial responsibility requirements; or

(2) Any other appropriate procedure, provided that such procedure is set forth in the carrier's tariff.

(c) A common carrier that has employed the procedure prescribed in paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall be deemed to have met its obligations under section 10(b)(11) of the Act (46 U.S.C. 41104(11)), unless the common carrier knew that such NVOCC was not in compliance with the applicable licensing, registration, tariff, and financial responsibility requirements.

(d) The Commission will publish at its Web site, *www.fmc.gov,* a list of the locations of all carrier and conference tariffs, and a list of ocean transportation intermediaries (including a separate list for NVOCCs) who have met all of their applicable licensing, registration, tariff and financial responsibility requirements, current as of the last date on which the list is updated. The Commission will update this list on a periodic basis.

[80 FR 68736, Nov. 5, 2015]

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2020-02-20 issue
Title: 12: Banks and Banking - Sections changed: 17
Title: 18: Conservation of Power and Water Resources - Sections changed: 39
Title: 37: Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights - Sections changed: 6
Title: 40: Protection of Environment - Sections changed: 14
Title: 46: Shipping - Sections changed: 16
Title: 50: Wildlife and Fisheries - Sections changed: 15

cfr/title-46-Shipping/chapter-IV-Federal-Maritime-Commission/subchapter-B-Regulations-Affecting-Ocean-Shipping-Foreign-Commerce/part-515-Licensing-Registration-Financial-Responsibility-Requirements-General-Duties-Ocean-Transportation-Intermediaries/subpart-C-Financial-Responsibility-Requirements-Claims-Against-Ocean-Transportation-Intermediaries/section-515.27.md, after:

##### § 515.27 Proof of compliance—NVOCC. #####

(a) No common carrier may knowingly and willfully accept cargo from or transport cargo for the account of:

(1) An NVOCC that does not have a published tariff as required by 46 U.S.C. 40501 and part 520 of this chapter, and a bond, insurance, or other surety as required by 46 U.S.C. 40902 and this part; or

(2) An OFF that does not have a bond, insurance, or other surety as required by 46 U.S.C. 40902 and this part.

(b) A common carrier can obtain proof of an NVOCC or OFF's compliance with the OTI licensing, registration, tariff and financial responsibility requirements by:

(1) Consulting the Commission's website *www.fmc.gov* as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, to verify that the NVOCC or OFF has complied with the applicable licensing, registration, tariff, and financial responsibility requirements; or

(2) Any other appropriate procedure, provided that such procedure is set forth in the carrier's tariff.

(c) A common carrier that has employed the procedure prescribed in paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall be deemed to have met its obligations under 46 U.S.C. 41104(a)(11), unless the common carrier knew that such NVOCC or OFF was not in compliance with the applicable tariff or financial responsibility requirements.

(d) The Commission will publish at its Web site, *www.fmc.gov,* a list of the locations of all carrier and conference tariffs, and a list of ocean transportation intermediaries (including a separate list for NVOCCs) who have met all of their applicable licensing, registration, tariff and financial responsibility requirements, current as of the last date on which the list is updated. The Commission will update this list on a periodic basis.

[80 FR 68736, Nov. 5, 2015, as amended at 85 FR 9683, Feb. 20, 2020]
