cfr/title-31-Money-Finance-Treasury/subtitle-B-Regulations-Relating-Money-Finance/chapter-V-Office-Foreign-Assets-Control-Department-Treasury/part-552-Yemen-Sanctions-Regulations/subpart-C-General-Definitions/section-552.310.md, before:

##### § 552.310 U.S. financial institution. #####

The term *U.S. financial**institution* means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, or commodity futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes but is not limited to depository institutions, banks, savings banks, trust companies, securities brokers and dealers, commodity futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2020-10-29 issue
Title: 14: Aeronautics and Space - Sections changed: 1
Title: 7: Agriculture - Sections changed: 30
Title: 9: Animals and Animal Products - Sections changed: 102
Title: 15: Commerce and Foreign Trade - Sections changed: 7
Title: 21: Food and Drugs - Sections changed: 2
Title: 31: Money and Finance: Treasury - Sections changed: 51
Title: 36: Parks, Forests, and Public Property - Sections changed: 4
Title: 40: Protection of Environment - Sections changed: 4
Title: 49: Transportation - Sections changed: 2

cfr/title-31-Money-Finance-Treasury/subtitle-B-Regulations-Relating-Money-Finance/chapter-V-Office-Foreign-Assets-Control-Department-Treasury/part-552-Yemen-Sanctions-Regulations/subpart-C-General-Definitions/section-552.310.md, after:

##### § 552.310 Property; property interest. #####

The terms *property* and *property interest* include money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership, or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future, or contingent.
