##### § 1.367(a)-9T Treatment of deemed section 351 exchanges pursuant to section 304(a)(1) (temporary). #####

(a) *Scope and general rule.* This section applies to the extent that, pursuant to section 304(a)(1), a United States person is treated as transferring stock of a domestic or foreign corporation to a foreign corporation (foreign acquiring corporation) in exchange for stock of the foreign acquiring corporation in a transaction to which section 351(a) applies (deemed section 351 exchange). Except to the extent provided in paragraph (b) of this section, a transfer of stock by a United States person to a foreign acquiring corporation in a deemed section 351 exchange is not subject to section 367(a)(1).

(b) *Special rule.* Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, if the distribution received by the United States person in redemption of the stock of the foreign acquiring corporation deemed issued in the deemed section 351 exchange is applied against and reduces (in whole or in part), pursuant to section 301(c)(2), the basis of stock of the foreign acquiring corporation held by the United States person other than the stock deemed issued in the deemed section 351 exchange, the United States person shall recognize gain pursuant to this paragraph (b). The exceptions described in § 1.367(a)-3(b)(1) and (c)(1) shall not apply to a transfer of stock described in paragraph (a) of this section. The amount of gain recognized by a United States person pursuant to this paragraph (b) shall equal the amount, if any, by which—

(1) The gain realized by the United States person with respect to the transferred stock in connection with the deemed section 351 exchange exceeds;

(2) The amount of the distribution received by the United States person in redemption of the stock of the foreign acquiring corporation deemed issued in the deemed section 351 exchange that is treated as a dividend under section 301(c)(1) and included in gross income by the United States person.

(c) *Ordering rule.* For purposes of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the amount of gain realized by the United States person in connection with the deemed section 351 exchange shall be determined without regard to the amount of gain recognized by the United States person under paragraph (b) of this section.

(d) *Allocation of recognized gain.* Gain recognized by a United States person pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section shall be treated as recognized with respect to the stock transferred in the deemed section 351 exchange in proportion to the amount of gain realized by the United States person with respect to such stock. See § 1.367(a)-1T(b)(4) for additional rules on the character, source, and adjustments relating to gain recognized under section 367(a).

(e) *Example.* The following example illustrates the rules of this section:

Example.(i) *Facts.* (A) USP, a domestic corporation, wholly owns FC1 and FC2, each a foreign corporation. USP, FC1 and FC2 use a calendar taxable year. The FC1 stock has a $40x basis and $100x fair market value. The FC2 stock has a $100x basis and $100x fair market value. As of December 31, year 1, FC1 has zero earnings and profits, and FC2 has $20x earnings and profits. On December 31, year 1, in a transaction described in section 304(a)(1), USP sells the FC1 stock to FC2 for $100x cash.

(B) Because USP wholly owns FC1 before the transactions and is treated, under section 318, as indirectly owning 100% of the FC1 stock after the transfer, under section 304(a)(1), USP and FC2 are treated in the same manner as if USP contributed the FC1 stock to FC2 in a deemed section 351 exchange in exchange solely for $100x of FC2 stock, and then FC2 redeemed for $100x cash its stock deemed issued to USP. Because USP wholly owns FC1 before the sale and is treated as owning 100% of FC1 after the sale, section 302(a) does not apply to the redemption. Instead, under section 302(d), the redemption is treated as a distribution to which section 301 applies. Pursuant to section 304(b)(2), $20x of the distribution is treated as a dividend from FC2. With respect to the remaining $80x, USP takes the position that $40x is applied against and reduces the basis of the FC2 stock issued in the deemed section 351 exchange, and $40x is applied against and reduces the basis of the FC2 stock held by USP prior to (and after) the transaction.

(ii) *Analysis.* Under paragraph (b) of this section, USP must recognize gain of $40x on its transfer of the FC1 stock to FC2 in the deemed section 351 exchange (the amount by which the $60x gain realized by USP on the deemed section 351 exchange with respect to the F1 stock exceeds the $20x dividend inclusion). Pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, the exception under § 1.367(a)-3(b) is not available to the transfer of the FC1 stock by USP to FC2 in the deemed section 351 exchange. Thus, USP cannot avoid gain recognition under paragraph (b) of this section by entering into a gain recognition agreement with respect to its transfer of the FC1 stock to FC2 in the deemed section 351 exchange. Under paragraph (d) of this section, the $40x gain recognized is allocated among the shares of FC1 stock transferred to FC2 in the deemed section 351 exchange in proportion to the gain realized by USP on the transfer of such shares. Under paragraph (c) of this section, the application of paragraph (b) of this section is determined prior to taking into account the $40x increase to the basis of the FC1 stock transferred by USP. Under section 362, the basis of the FC1 stock in the hands of FC2 is increased by $40x, the amount of gain recognized by the USP on the transfer of the FC1 stock under paragraph (b) of this section. Under section 358, the basis of the FC2 stock received by USP in the deemed section 351 exchange is similarly increased by $40x. See § 1.367(a)-1T(b)(4). The $40x increase to the basis of the FC2 stock is taken into account before determining the consequences of the redemption of such stock under section 304(a)(1).

(f) *Effective/applicability date.* This section applies to transfers occurring on or after February 10, 2009. See § 1.367(a)-3(a), as contained in 26 CFR part 1 revised as of April 1, 2008, for transfers occurring on or after February 21, 2006, and before February 10, 2009.

(g) *Expiration date.* This section expires on or before February 10, 2012.

[T.D. 9444, 74 FR 6826, Feb. 11, 2009; 74 FR 10175, Mar. 10, 2009]