##### § 1.362-3 Basis of importation property acquired in loss importation transaction. #####

(a) *Purpose.* The purpose of section 362(e)(1) and this section is to modify the application of section 362(a) (section 351 transfers, contributions to capital, or paid-in surplus) and section 362(b) (reorganizations) to prevent a corporation (Acquiring) from importing a net built-in loss in a transaction described in either section. See paragraph (c) of this section for definitions of terms used in this section.

(b) *Basis determinations under this section*—(1) *Basis of importation property received in loss importation transaction.* Notwithstanding the general rules of section 362(a) and (b), Acquiring's basis in importation property (as defined in paragraph (c)(2) of this section) acquired in a loss importation transaction (as defined in paragraph (c)(3) of this section) is equal to the value of the property immediately after the transaction.

(2) *Adjustment to basis of subsidiary stock in triangular reorganizations.* If a corporation (P) computes its basis in stock of a subsidiary (whether S or T) under § 1.358-6 (stock basis in certain triangular reorganizations), P's basis in property treated as acquired by P in § 1.358-6(c) is determined under section 362(e)(1) and this section to the extent such property, if actually acquired by P, would be importation property acquired in a loss importation transaction. See § 1.358-6(c)(1)(i)(A), (c)(2)(ii)(B), and (c)(3)(i). The subsidiary's basis in the property actually acquired in the transaction is determined under applicable law (including this section), without regard to the amount of any adjustment to P's basis in the subsidiary's stock. Thus, the basis of the property in S's or T's hands may differ from the amount of the adjustment to P's basis in its stock of S or T.

(3) *Acquiring's basis in other property transferred.* In general, Acquiring's basis in property received in a section 362 transaction (as defined in paragraph (c)(1) of this section) that is not determined under section 362(e)(1) and this section is determined under section 362(a) or section 362(b). However, if the transaction is described in section 362(a) (without regard to whether it is also described in any other section), further adjustment may be required under section 362(e)(2). See § 1.362-4.

(4) *Other effects of basis determination under this section*—(i) *Determination by reference to transferor's basis.* A determination of basis under this section is a determination by reference to the transferor's basis, including for purposes of sections 1223(2) and 7701(a)(43). However, solely for purposes of applying section 755, a determination of basis under this section is treated as a determination not by reference to the transferor's basis.

(ii) *Not tax-exempt income or noncapital, nondeductible expense.* The application of this section does not give rise to an item treated as tax-exempt income under § 1.1502-32(b)(2)(ii) or as a noncapital, nondeductible expense under § 1.1502-32(b)(2)(iii).

(iii) *No effect on earnings and profits.* Any determination of basis under this section does not reduce or otherwise affect the calculation of the all earnings and profits amount provided in § 1.367(b)-2(d).

(c) *Definitions.* For purposes of this section, the following definitions apply:

(1) *Section 362 transaction.* The term *section 362 transaction* means any transaction described in section 362(a) or in section 362(b).

(2) *Importation property*—(i) *General rule.* The term *importation property* means any property (including separate portions determined under paragraph (d)(4) of this section and separate portions of property tentatively divided under paragraph (e)(2) of this section) with respect to which—

(A) Any gain or loss that would be recognized on its sale by the transferor immediately before the transaction (the transferor's hypothetical sale) would not be subject to tax imposed under any provision of subtitle A of the Internal Revenue Code (federal income tax) (taking into account the provisions of paragraph (d) of this section); and

(B) Any gain or loss that would be recognized on its sale by Acquiring immediately after the transaction (Acquiring's hypothetical sale) would be subject to federal income tax (taking into account the provisions of paragraph (d) of this section).

(ii) *Special rules for applying this paragraph (c)(2).* See paragraph (d) of this section for rules for determining whether gain or loss on a hypothetical sale would be taken into account in determining a federal income tax liability and paragraph (e) of this section for rules applicable when more than one person would take such gain or loss into account.

(3) *Loss importation transaction.* The term *loss importation transaction* means any section 362 transaction in which Acquiring's aggregate basis in all importation property received from all transferors in the transaction would exceed the aggregate value of such property immediately after the transaction. For this purpose, Acquiring's basis in property received is determined without regard to this section or section 362(e)(2).

(4) *Value*—(i) *General rule.* The term *value* means fair market value.

(ii) *Special rule for transfers of partnership interests.* Notwithstanding the general rule in paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section, when referring to a partnership interest, for purposes of this section, the term *value* means the sum of the cash that Acquiring would receive for the interest, assuming an exchange between a willing buyer and a willing seller (neither being under any compulsion to buy or sell and both having reasonable knowledge of relevant facts), increased by any § 1.752-1 liabilities (as defined in § 1.752-1(a)(4)) of the partnership allocated to Acquiring with regard to such transferred interest under section 752 immediately after the transfer to Acquiring. If a partnership has elected under section 754, or if section 743(b) would require a downward basis adjustment to the partnership property, the partnership must apply the rules of § 1.743-1 to determine the amount of the basis adjustment to the partnership property.

(d) *Rules for determining whether gain or loss would be taken into account in determining a federal income tax liability*—(1) *General rule.* In general, any gain or loss that would be recognized on a hypothetical sale described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section is considered to be subject to federal income tax if, taking into account all relevant facts and circumstances, such gain or loss would affect or be taken into account in determining the federal income tax liability of the transferor or Acquiring, respectively. This determination is made without regard to whether such person has or would have any actual federal income tax liability for the taxable year of the transaction.

(2) *Look-through rule in the case of certain pass-through entities.* Notwithstanding the general rule in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the determination of whether any gain or loss on a hypothetical sale would be treated as subject to federal income tax is made by reference to the person that would be required to include such gain or loss in its taxable income if the hypothetical seller is—

(i) A trust treated as owned by its grantors or others (see section 671);

(ii) A partnership (see section 701); or

(iii) An S corporation (see sections 1363 and 1366).

(3) *Controlled foreign corporation (CFC), passive foreign investment company (PFIC).* For purposes of this section, gain or loss that would be recognized by a CFC (as defined in section 957(a)) or a PFIC (as defined in section 1297(a)) is not deemed taken into account in determining a federal income tax liability solely because it could affect an inclusion under section 951(a) or section 1293(a).

(4) *Special rule for debt-financed property subject to section 512.* If property is debt-financed property (as defined in section 514(b)) owned by an organization subject to the unrelated business income tax described in section 511(a)(2) and, as a result, a portion of any gain or loss on a sale of the property would be included in unrelated taxable business income (UBTI) under section 512, such property is treated as divided into separate portions in proportion to the amount of such gain or loss that would be includible in UBTI. The rules of paragraph (e) of this section apply to determine the characterization of such portions (as includible in the determination of a federal income tax liability or not), and the tax treatment and consequences of the transaction in which such portions are transferred.

(5) *Look-through treatment in the case of certain avoidance transactions*—(i) *Application of this paragraph (d)(5).* This paragraph (d)(5) applies if—

(A) The transferor is a domestic entity that is a trust (other than a trust described in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section), estate, regulated investment company (as defined in section 851(a)), a real estate investment trust (as defined in section 856(a)), or a cooperative (as described in section 1381); and

(B) The transferor transfers, directly or indirectly, property that was transferred to or acquired by it as part of a plan (whether of transferor, Acquiring, or any other person) to avoid the application of section 362(e)(1) and this section to a section 362 transaction.

(ii) *Effect of application of this paragraph (d)(5).* Notwithstanding paragraph (d)(1) of this section, if a transferor is described in both paragraphs (d)(5)(i)(A) and (B) of this section—

(A) The transferor is treated as though it distributes the proceeds of the hypothetical sale (which, for this purpose, are presumed to be an amount greater than zero);

(B) To the fullest extent possible under the transferor's organizing instrument, the deemed distribution is treated as made to a distributee or distributees that would not take distributions from the transferor into account in determining a federal income tax liability; and

(C) The determination of whether the gain or loss on the hypothetical sale is treated as subject to federal income tax is made by reference to the deemed distributee or distributees.

(iii) *Tiered entities.* If a deemed distributee is an entity described in paragraph (d)(5)(i)(A) of this section, the determination of whether gain or loss on the hypothetical sale is taken into account in determining a federal income tax liability is made by treating the deemed distributee, and any successive such deemed distributees, as a transferor and applying the rules in paragraphs (d)(5)(i) and (ii) of this section to its deemed distribution (and to all successive deemed distributions), until no deemed distributee or successive deemed distributee is an entity described in paragraph (d)(5)(i)(A) of this section.

(e) *Special rules for gain or loss that would be taken into account by multiple persons*—(1) *In general.* If gain or loss from a disposition of property would be includible in income by more than one person, the property is treated as tentatively divided into separate portions in proportion to the amount of gain or loss recognized with respect to the property that would be allocated to each such person. If an entity's organizing instrument specially allocates gain and loss, the tentative division of property under this paragraph (e) must reflect the manner in which gain or loss on the disposition of such property would be allocated under the terms of the organizing instrument and any applicable rules of law, taking into account the net gain or loss actually recognized by the entity in that tax year.

(2) *Application of section.* The rules of this section apply independently to each tentatively divided portion to determine if the portion is importation property. Each tentatively divided portion that is determined to be importation property is included with all other importation property in the determination of whether the transaction is a loss importation transaction.

(3) *Acquiring's basis in property tentatively divided into separate portions.* Immediately after the application of section 362(e)(1) and this section and before the application of section 362(e)(2), each property treated as tentatively divided into separate portions for purposes of applying section 362(e)(1) and this section ceases to be treated as tentatively divided and Acquiring has a single, undivided basis in such property that is equal to the sum of—

(i) The value of each tentatively divided portion that is importation property, if the transaction is a loss importation transaction; and

(ii) Acquiring's basis in each tentatively divided portion that is not importation property received in a loss importation transaction, as determined under section 362(a) or section 362(b), as applicable, and without regard to any potential application of section 362(e)(2).

(f) *Examples.* The examples in this paragraph (f) illustrate the application of section 362(e)(1) and the provisions of this section. Unless otherwise indicated, the examples use the following nomenclature and assumptions: A and B are U.S. citizens. DC, DC1, and P are domestic corporations that have not elected to be S corporations within the meaning of section 1361(a)(1) and that are not members of a consolidated group. F is a foreign individual. FP is a foreign partnership. FC, FC1, and FC2 are foreign corporations. Unless the facts indicate otherwise, the foreign individuals, corporations, and partnerships are not engaged in a U.S. trade or business, have no U.S. real property interests, and have no other relationships, activities, or interests that would cause them, their shareholders, their partners, or their property to be subject to federal income tax. There is no applicable income tax treaty, all persons' tax years are calendar years, and all persons and transactions are unrelated unless the facts indicate otherwise.

Example 1.*Basic application of section.* (i) *Section 351 transfer of importation property in a loss importation transaction.* (A) *Facts.* FC owns three assets, A1 (basis $40, value $150), A2 (basis $120, value $30), and A3 (basis $140, value $20). On Date 1, FC transfers A1, A2, and A3 to DC in a transaction to which section 351 applies.

(B) *Importation property.* If FC had sold A1, A2, or A3 immediately before the transaction, no gain or loss recognized on the sale would have been taken into account in determining a federal income tax liability. Further, if DC had sold A1, A2, or A3 immediately after the transaction, DC would take into account any gain or loss recognized on the sale in determining its federal income tax liability. Therefore, A1, A2, and A3 are all importation properties. See paragraph (c)(2) of this section.

(C) *Loss importation transaction.* FC's transfer of A1, A2, and A3 is a section 362 transaction. Furthermore, but for section 362(e)(1) and this section and section 362(e)(2), DC's aggregate basis in the importation properties, A1, A2, and A3, would be $300 ($40 + $120 + $140) under section 362(a) and the properties' aggregate value would be $200 ($150 + $30 + $20). Therefore, the importation properties' aggregate basis would exceed their aggregate value and the transaction is a loss importation transaction. See paragraph (c)(3) of this section.

(D) *Application of section 362(e)(1) and this section to importation property received in loss importation transaction.* Because the importation properties, A1, A2, and A3, were transferred in a loss importation transaction, paragraph (b)(1) of this section applies and DC's basis in A1, A2, and A3 will each be equal to the property's value ($150, $30, and $20, respectively) immediately after the transfer.

(E) *Basis of property received in transaction.* Following the application of section 362(e)(1) and this section, the provisions of section 362(e)(2) must be taken into account because the transfer is a section 362(a) transaction. Taking into account the application of section 362(e)(1) and this section, DC's aggregate basis in the transferred properties would not exceed their aggregate value immediately after the transfer. Therefore, FC does not have a net built-in loss, FC's transfer is not a loss duplication transaction, and section 362(e)(2) does not apply to this transaction. DC's bases in A1, A2, and A3, as determined under paragraph (i)(D) of this *Example 1,* are $150, $30, and $20, respectively. Under section 358(a), FC receives the DC stock with a basis of $300 (the sum of FC's bases in A1, A2, and A3 immediately before the exchange).

(ii) *Reorganization.* The facts are the same as in paragraph (i)(A) of this *Example 1* except that, instead of transferring property to DC in a section 351 exchange, FC merges with and into DC in a transaction described in section 368(a)(1)(A). The analysis and results are the same as set forth in paragraphs (i)(B), (C), and (D) of this *Example 1.* However, the analysis in paragraph (i)(E) of this *Example 1* does not apply to these facts because the transaction is not subject to 362(e)(2) and § 1.362-4. Under section 358(a), FC's shareholders will take the DC stock with a basis determined by reference to their FC stock basis.

(iii) *FC's property used in U.S. trade or business.* (A) *Facts.* The facts are the same as in paragraph (i)(A) of this *Example 1,* except that FC is engaged in a U.S. trade or business and uses all the properties in that U.S. trade or business. In this case, none of the properties would be importation property because FC would take any gain or loss on the disposition of the properties into account in determining its federal income tax liability. Accordingly, this section does not apply to the transaction.

(B) *Basis of property received in transaction.* Following the application of section 362(e)(1) and this section, the provisions of section 362(e)(2) must be taken into account because the transfer is a section 362(a) transaction. Taking into account the application of section 362(e)(1) and this section but without taking into account the provisions of section 362(e)(2), DC's aggregate basis in the transferred properties would be $300 ($40 + $120 + $140) under section 362(a) and the properties' aggregate value immediately after the transfer would be $200 ($150 + $30 + $20). Therefore, FC has a net built-in loss and FC's transfer of A1, A2, and A3 is a loss duplication transaction. Accordingly, under the general rule of section 362(e)(2), FC's $100 net built-in loss ($300 aggregate basis over $200 aggregate value) would be allocated proportionately (by the amount of built-in loss in each property) to reduce DC's basis in the loss properties, A2 and A3. See § 1.362-4. As a result, DC's basis in A2 would be $77.14 ($120 basis under section 362(a) reduced by $42.86, A2's proportionate share of FC's net built-in loss, computed as $90/$210 × $100) and DC's basis in A3 would be $82.86 ($140 basis under section 362(a) reduced by $57.14, A3's proportionate share of FC's net built-in loss, computed as $120/$210 x $100). However, if FC and DC were to elect under section 362(e)(2)(C) to apply the $100 basis reduction to FC's basis in the DC stock received in the transaction, DC's bases in A2 and A3 would remain their section 362(a) bases of $120 and $140, respectively. Under section 362(a), DC's basis in A1 is $40 (irrespective of whether the section 362(e)(2)(C) election is made). If FC and DC do not make a section 362(e)(2)(C) election, FC's basis in the DC stock received in the exchange will be $300; if FC and DC do make the election, FC's basis in the DC stock will be $200 ($300−$100 net built-in loss). See § 1.362-4(b).

Example 2.*Multiple transferors.* (i) *Facts.* The facts are the same as in paragraph (i)(A) of *Example 1* of this paragraph (f), except that FC only owns A1 (basis $40, value $150) and A2 (basis $120, value $30) and F owns A3 (basis $140, value $20). On Date 1, FC transfers A1 and A2, and F transfers A3, to DC in a single transaction described in section 351.

(ii) *Importation property.* A1 and A2 are importation properties for the reasons set forth in paragraph (i)(B) of *Example 1* of this paragraph (f). A3 is also an importation property because, if F had sold A3 immediately before the transaction, no gain or loss recognized on the sale would have been taken into account in determining a federal income tax liability, and, further, if DC had sold A3 immediately after the transaction, DC would take into account any gain or loss recognized on the sale in determining its federal income tax liability.

(iii) *Loss importation transaction.* The transfers by FC and F are a section 362 transaction. The transaction is a loss importation transaction for the reasons set forth in paragraph (i)(C) of *Example 1* of this paragraph (f) (notwithstanding that one of the transferors, FC, did not transfer a net built-in loss). See paragraph (c)(3) of this section.

(iv) *Application of section 362(e)(1) and this section to importation property received in loss importation transaction.* Because the importation properties, A1, A2, and A3, were transferred in a loss importation transaction, paragraph (b)(1) of this section applies and DC's basis in A1, A2, and A3 will each be equal to the property's value ($150, $30, and $20, respectively) immediately after the transfer.

(v) *Basis of property received in transaction.* Following the application of section 362(e)(1) and this section, the provisions of section 362(e)(2) must be taken into account because the transfer is a section 362(a) transaction. The application of section 362(e)(2) is determined separately for each transferor. See § 1.362-4(b). Taking into account the application of section 362(e)(1) and this section, neither DC's aggregate basis in FC's properties nor DC's basis in F's property would exceed the properties' respective values immediately after the transaction. Therefore neither FC nor F has a net built-in loss, neither transfer is a loss duplication transaction, and section 362(e)(2) does not apply to either transfer. DC's bases in A1, A2, and A3, as determined under paragraph (iv) of this *Example 2,* are $150, $30, and $20, respectively. Under section 358(a), FC's basis in the DC stock received is $160 ($40 + $120) and F's basis in the DC stock received in the exchange is $140.

Example 3.*Transfer of importation and non-importation property.* (i) *Facts.* As in paragraph (i) of *Example 2,* FC owns A1 (basis $40, value $150) and A2 (basis $120, value $30), and F owns A3 (basis $140, value $20). In addition, A2 is a U.S. real property interest as defined in section 897(c)(1). On Date 1, FC transfers A1 and A2, and F transfers A3, to DC in a single transaction described in section 351.

(ii) *Importation property.* A1 and A3 are importation properties for the reasons set forth in paragraph (i)(B) of *Example 1* and paragraph (ii) of *Example 2* of this paragraph (f), respectively. However, A2 is not importation property because, if FC had sold A2 immediately before the transaction, FC would take into account any gain or loss recognized on the sale in determining its federal income tax liability.

(iii) *Loss importation transaction.* FC's and F's transfer is a section 362 transaction. Furthermore, but for section 362(e)(1) and this section and section 362(e)(2), DC's aggregate basis in the importation properties, A1 and A3, would be $180 ($40 + $140) and the properties' aggregate value would be $170 ($150 + $20) immediately after the transaction. Therefore, the importation properties' aggregate basis would exceed their aggregate value immediately after the transaction, and the transfer is a loss importation transaction.

(iv) *Application of section 362(e)(1) and this section to importation property received in loss importation transaction.* Because the importation properties, A1 and A3, were transferred in a loss importation transaction, paragraph (b)(1) of this section applies and DC's basis in A1 and in A3 will each be equal to the property's value ($150 and $20, respectively) immediately after the transfer.

(v) *Basis of property received in transaction.* Following the application of section 362(e)(1) and this section, the provisions of section 362(e)(2) must be taken into account because the transfer is a section 362(a) transaction. The application of section 362(e)(2) is determined separately for each transferor. See § 1.362-4(b).

(A) *FC's transfer.* Taking into account the application of section 362(e)(1) and this section but without taking into account the provisions of section 362(e)(2), DC would have an aggregate basis of $270 in the transferred properties ($150 in A1, as determined under paragraph (iv) of this *Example 3,* plus $120 in A2, determined under section 362(a)), and the properties would have an aggregate value of $180 ($150 + $30) immediately after the transfer. Therefore, FC has a net built-in loss and FC's transfer of A1 and A2 is a loss duplication transaction. Accordingly, under the general rule of section 362(e)(2), FC's $90 net built-in loss ($270 aggregate basis to DC over $180 aggregate value) would be allocated proportionately to reduce DC's basis in the loss property transferred by FC. As a result, FC's entire net built-in loss would be allocated to A2, the only loss property transferred by FC, and DC's basis in A2 would be $30 ($120 basis under section 362(a) reduced by $90 net built-in loss). However, if FC and DC were to elect under section 362(e)(2)(C) to apply the $90 basis reduction to FC's basis in the DC stock received in the transaction, DC's basis in A2 would remain its section 362(a) basis of $120. DC's basis in A1 is $150 as determined under paragraph (iv) of this *Example 3* (irrespective of whether the section 362(e)(2)(C) election is made). If FC and DC do not make a section 362(e)(2)(C) election, FC's basis in the DC stock received in the exchange will be $160; if FC and DC do make the election, FC's basis in the DC stock will be $70 ($160−$90 net built-in loss). See § 1.362-4.

(B) *F's transfer of A3.* Taking into account the application of section 362(e)(1) and this section, DC's basis in A3, the property transferred by F, would not exceed its value immediately after the transfer. Therefore, F does not have a built-in loss, F's transfer is not a loss duplication transaction, and section 362(e)(2) does not apply to F's transfer. DC's basis in A3, as determined under paragraph (iv) of this *Example 3,* is $20. Under section 358(a), F receives the DC stock with a basis of $140.

Example 4.*Multiple transferors of non-importation properties.* (i) *Facts.* DC1 owns A1 (basis $40, value $150). In addition, as in *Example 3* of this paragraph (f), FC owns A2 (basis $120, value $30), a U.S. real property interest as defined in section 897(c)(1), and F owns A3 (basis $140, value $20). On Date 1, DC1 transfers A1, FC transfers A2, and F transfers A3, to DC in a single transaction described in section 351.

(ii) *Importation property.* A2 is not importation property and A3 is importation property for the reasons set forth in paragraph (ii) of *Example 3* and paragraph (i)(B) of *Example 1* of this paragraph (f), respectively. A1 is not importation property because, if DC1 had sold A2 immediately before the transaction, DC1 would take into account any gain or loss recognized on the sale in determining its federal income tax liability.

(iii) *Loss importation transaction.* The transfer of A1, A2, and A3 is a section 362 transaction. Furthermore, but for section 362(e)(1) and this section and section 362(e)(2), DC's basis in importation property, A3, would be $140 and the value of the property would be $20 immediately after the transaction. Therefore, the importation property's basis would exceed value and the transfer is a loss importation transaction.

(iv) *Application of section 362(e)(1) and this section to importation property received in loss importation transaction.* Because the importation property, A3, was transferred in a loss importation transaction, section 362(e)(1) and paragraph (b)(1) of this section apply and DC's basis in A3 will be equal to A3's $20 value immediately after the transfer.

(v) *Basis of property received in transaction.* Following the application of section 362(e)(1) and this section, the provisions of section 362(e)(2) must be taken into account because the transfer is a section 362(a) transaction. The application of section 362(e)(2) is determined separately for each transferor. See § 1.362-4.

(A) *DC1's transfer.* Taking into account the application of section 362(e)(1) and this section, DC's basis in A1 ($40 under section 362(a)) would not exceed its value immediately after the transfer. Therefore, DC1 does not have a net built-in loss, DC1's transfer is not a loss duplication transaction, and section 362(e)(2) does not apply to DC1's transfer. DC's basis in A1, determined under section 362(a), is $40. Under section 358(a), DC1 receives the DC stock with a basis of $40.

(B) *FC's transfer.* Taking into account the application of section 362(e)(1) and this section, but without taking into account the provisions of section 362(e)(2), DC would have a section 362(a) basis of $120 in A2, which would exceed A2's $30 value immediately after the transfer. Therefore, FC has a net built-in loss and FC's transfer of A2 is a loss duplication transaction. Accordingly, under the general rule of section 362(e)(2), FC's $90 net built-in loss (DC's $120 basis in A2 over A2's $30 value) would be applied to reduce DC's basis in A2, the only loss property transferred by FC. As a result, DC's basis in A2 would be $30 ($120 basis under section 362(a), reduced by the $90 net built-in loss). However, if FC and DC were to elect under section 362(e)(2)(C) to apply the $90 basis reduction to FC's basis in the DC stock received in the transaction, DC's basis in A2 would be its $120 basis determined under section 362(a). If FC and DC do not make a section 362(e)(2)(C) election, FC's basis in the DC stock received in the exchange will be $120; if FC and DC do make the election, FC's basis in the DC stock will be $30 ($120−$90). See § 1.362-4.

(C) *F's transfer.* F's transfer of A3 is a transaction described in section 362(a). However, taking into account the application of section 362(e)(1) and this section, DC's basis in A3 ($20) would not exceed its value immediately after the transfer. Therefore, F does not have a built-in loss, F's transfer is not a loss duplication transaction, and section 362(e)(2) does not apply to F's transfer. DC's basis in A3, as determined under paragraph (iv) of this *Example 4,* is $20. Under section 358(a), F receives the DC stock with a basis of $140.

Example 5.*Partnership transactions.* (i) *Transfer by foreign partnership, foreign and domestic partners.* (A) *Facts.* A and F are equal partners in FP. FP owns A1 (basis $100, value $70). Under the terms of the FP partnership agreement, FP's items of income, gain, deduction, and loss are allocated equally between A and F. Section 704(c) does not apply with respect to the partnership property. FP transfers A1 to DC in a transfer to which section 351 applies. No election is made under section 362(e)(2)(C).

(B) *Importation property.* If FP had sold A1 immediately before the transaction, any gain or loss recognized on the sale would be allocated to and includible by A and F equally under the partnership agreement. Thus, under paragraph (d)(2) of this section, A1 is treated as tentatively divided into two equal portions, one treated as owned by A and one treated as owned by F. If FP had sold A1 immediately before the transaction, any gain or loss recognized on the portion treated as owned by A would have been taken into account in determining a federal income tax liability (A's); thus A's tentatively divided portion of A1 is not importation property. However, no gain or loss recognized on the tentatively divided portion treated as owned by F would have been taken into account in determining a federal income tax liability. Further, if DC had sold A1 immediately after the transaction, any gain or loss recognized on the sale would have been taken into account in determining a federal income tax liability (DC's); thus, F's tentatively divided portion of A1 is importation property.

(C) *Loss importation transaction.* FP's transfer of A1 is a section 362 transaction. Furthermore, but for section 362(e)(1) and this section and section 362(e)(2), DC's basis in the importation property, F's portion of A1, would be $50 under section 362(a) and the property's value would be $35 immediately after the transaction. Therefore, the importation property's basis would exceed its value and the transfer is a loss importation transaction.

(D) *Application of section 362(e)(1) and this section to importation property received in loss importation transaction.* Because the importation property, F's tentatively divided portion of A1, was transferred in a loss importation transaction, section 362(e)(1) and paragraph (b)(1) of this section apply and DC's basis in F's portion of A1 will be equal to its $35 value.

(E) *Basis of property received in transaction.* Following the application of section 362(e)(1) and this section, the provisions of section 362(e)(2) must be taken into account because the transfer is a section 362(a) transaction. Taking into account the application of section 362(e)(1) and this section but without taking into account the provisions of section 362(e)(2), DC's aggregate basis in A1 would be $85 (the sum of the $35 basis in F's tentatively divided portion of A1, as determined under paragraph (i)(D) of this *Example 5,* and the $50 basis in A's tentatively divided portion of A1, determined under section 362(a), see paragraphs (d)(2) and (e)(3) of this section) and A1's value immediately after the transfer would be $70. Therefore, FP has a net built-in loss and FP's transfer of A1 is a loss duplication transaction. Accordingly, under the general rule of section 362(e)(2), FP's $15 net built-in loss ($85 basis over $70 value) would be allocated to reduce DC's basis in the loss asset, A1, the only loss property transferred by FP. As a result, DC's basis in A1 would be $70 ($85 basis under section 362(a) and this section, reduced by the $15 net built-in loss). Under section 358, FP's basis in the DC stock received in the exchange will be $100. See § 1.362-4.

(ii) *Transfer with election to apply section 362(e)(2)(C).* The facts are the same as in paragraph (i)(A) of this *Example 5,* except that FP and DC elect to apply section 362(e)(2)(C) to reduce FP's basis in the DC stock received in the exchange. The analysis and results are the same as in paragraphs (i)(B), (C), (D), and (E) of this *Example 5,* except that the $15 reduction to DC's basis in A1 is not made and, as a result, DC's basis in A1 remains $85, and FP's basis in the DC stock received in the exchange is reduced from $100 to $85. The $15 reduction to FP's basis in DC stock reduces A's basis in its FP interest under section 705(a)(2)(B). See § 1.362-4(e)(1).

(iii) *Transfer by domestic partnership.* The facts are the same as in paragraph (i)(A) of this *Example 5* except that FP is a domestic partnership. The analysis and results are the same as in paragraphs (i)(B), (C), (D), and (E) of this *Example 5.*

(iv) *Transfer of interest in partnership with liability.* (A) *Facts.* F and two other individuals are equal partners in FP. F's basis in its partnership interest is $247. F's share of FP's § 1.752-1 liabilities (as defined in § 1.752-1(a)(4)) is $150. F transfers his partnership interest to DC in a transaction to which section 351 applies. If DC were to sell the FP interest immediately after the transfer, DC would receive $100 in cash or other property. In addition, taking into account the rules under § 1.752-4, DC's share of FP's § 1.752-1 liabilities (as defined in § 1.752-1(a)(4)) is $145 immediately after the transfer.

(B) *Importation property.* If F had sold his partnership interest immediately before the transaction, no gain or loss recognized on the sale would have been taken into account in determining a federal income tax liability. Further, if DC had sold the partnership interest immediately after the transaction, any gain or loss recognized on the sale would have been taken into account in determining a federal income tax liability. Therefore, F's partnership interest is importation property.

(C) *Loss importation transaction.* F's transfer is a section 362 transaction. However, but for section 362(e)(1) and this section and section 362(e)(2), DC's basis in the importation property, the partnership interest, determined under section 362(a) and taking into account the rules under section 752, would be $242 (F's $247 basis reduced by F's $150 share of FP liabilities and increased by DC's $145 share of FP liabilities) and, under paragraph (c)(4)(ii) of this section, the value of the FP interest would be $245 (the sum of $100, the cash DC would receive if DC immediately sold the partnership interest, and $145, DC's share of the § 1.752-1 liabilities (as defined in § 1.752-1(a)(4)) under section 752 immediately after the transfer to DC). Therefore, the importation property's basis ($242) would not exceed its value ($245), and the transfer is not a loss importation transaction.

(D) *Basis in property received in transaction.* Following the application of section 362(e)(1) and this section, the provisions of section 362(e)(2) must be taken into account because the transfer is a section 362(a) transaction. As described in paragraph (iv)(C) of this *Example 5,* taking into account the application of section 362(e)(1) and this section, DC's basis in the partnership interest would not exceed its value. Therefore, under § 1.362-4, F does not have a net built-in loss, the transfer is not a loss duplication transaction, and section 362(e)(2) does not apply to the transfer. DC's basis in F's partnership interest is $242, determined under sections 362(a) and 752. Under section 358, taking into account the rules under section 752, F's basis in the DC stock received in the exchange is $97 ($247 reduced by F's $150 share of FP liabilities). If FP had elected under section 754, or if section 743(b) required a downward basis adjustment to the partnership property, FP would apply the rules of § 1.743-1 to determine the amount of the basis adjustment to the partnership property.

Example 6.*Transactions involving tax-exempt entities.* (i) *Exempt transferor.* (A) *Facts.* InsCo is a benevolent life insurance association of a purely local character exempt from federal income tax under section 501(a) because it is described in section 501(c)(12). InsCo owns shares of stock of DC1 (basis $100, value $70) for investment purposes, which are not debt-financed property (as defined in section 514). On December 31, Year 1, InsCo transfers the DC1 stock to DC in exchange for DC stock in a transaction to which section 351 applies. No election is made under section 362(e)(2)(C).

(B) *Importation property.* If InsCo had sold the DC1 stock immediately before the transaction, any gain or loss realized would be excluded from UBTI under section 512(b)(5), and thus no gain or loss recognized on the sale would have been taken into account in determining federal income tax liability. Further, if DC had sold the DC1 stock immediately after the transaction, any gain or loss recognized on the sale would have been taken into account in determining federal income tax liability. Therefore, the DC1 stock is importation property.

(C) *Loss importation transaction.* InsCo's transfer is a section 362 transaction. Furthermore, but for section 362(e)(1) and this section and section 362(e)(2), DC's basis in importation property, the DC1 stock, would be $100, and the stock's value would be $70 immediately after the transaction. Therefore, the importation property's basis would exceed its value and the transfer is a loss importation transaction.

(D) *Application of section 362(e)(1) and this section to importation property received in loss importation transaction.* Because the importation property, the DC1 stock, was transferred in a loss importation transaction, paragraph (b)(1) of this section applies and DC's basis in the stock will be equal to its $70 value.

(E) *Basis of property received in transaction.* Following the application of section 362(e)(1) and this section, the provisions of section 362(e)(2) must be taken into account because the transfer is a section 362(a) transaction. Taking into account the application of section 362(e)(1) and this section, DC's basis in the DC1 stock does not exceed its value immediately after the transaction. Therefore, InsCo does not have a net built-in loss, InsCo's transfer is not a loss duplication transaction, and section 362(e)(2) has no application to the transaction. DC's basis in the DC1 stock, as determined under paragraph (i)(D) of this *Example 6,* is $70. Under section 358, InsCo's basis in the DC stock received in the exchange will be $100.

(ii) *Transferor loses tax-exempt status.* (A) *Facts.* The facts are the same as in paragraph (i)(A) of this *Example 6* except that InsCo fails to be described in section 501(c)(12) in Year 1.

(B) *Importation property.* If InsCo had sold the DC1 stock immediately before the transaction, any gain or loss recognized on the sale would have been taken into account in determining a federal income tax liability. Therefore, the DC1 stock is not importation property and this section does not apply to the transaction.

(C) *Basis of property received in transaction.* Following the application of section 362(e)(1) and this section, the provisions of section 362(e)(2) must be taken into account because the transfer is a section 362(a) transaction. Taking into account the application of section 362(e)(1) and this section but without taking into account the provisions of section 362(e)(2), DC would have a section 362(a) basis of $100 in the stock, which would exceed its value of $70 immediately after the transfer. Therefore, InsCo has a net built-in loss and InsCo's transfer of the DC1 stock is a loss duplication transaction. Accordingly, under the general rule of section 362(e)(2), InsCo's $30 net built-in loss ($100 basis over $70 value) would be allocated to reduce DC's basis in the loss asset, the DC1 stock, the only loss property transferred by InsCo. As a result, DC's basis in the DC1 stock would be $70 ($100 basis under section 362(a), reduced by the $30 net built-in loss). Under section 358, InsCo's basis in the DC stock received in the exchange will be $100.

(iii) *Transfer of property that is subject to unrelated business tax.* (A) *Facts.* The facts are the same as in paragraph (i)(A) of this *Example 6* except that, on December 31, Year 1, instead of the DC1 stock, InsCo transfers A1 (basis $200, value $150) to DC. A1 is real property that InsCo owned from January 1 to December 31 of Year 1. During the entirety of this period, A1's basis was $200, and in the twelve months prior to December 31, Year 1, the highest amount of outstanding principal indebtedness on A1 was $40. For purposes of the UBTI rules under section 512, A1 is debt-financed property within the meaning of section 514(b).

(B) *Importation property.* If InsCo had sold A1 immediately before the transaction, 20 percent of any gain or loss recognized on that sale (that is, $40 of acquisition indebtedness on A1 divided by A1's $200 basis in Year 1) would, under sections 512 and 514, be includible in UBTI at the end of Year 1, and 80 percent would not. Thus, under paragraph (d)(4) of this section, A1 is treated as tentatively divided into two portions, one reflecting the gain or loss that would be taken into account in determining a federal income tax liability in InsCo's hands immediately before the transfer (the 20 percent portion) and one that would not (the 80 percent portion). Further, if DC sold A1 immediately after the transfer, any gain or loss on both portions would be taken into account in determining a federal income tax liability. Accordingly, the 20 percent portion is not importation property, but the 80 percent portion is.

(C) *Loss importation transaction.* InsCo's transfer of A1 is a section 362 transaction. Furthermore, but for section 362(e)(1) and this section and section 362(e)(2), DC's basis in the importation property, the 80 percent portion of A1, would be $160 (80 percent of InsCo's $200 basis) under section 362(a) and the property's value would be $120 (80% of A1's $120 value) immediately after the transaction. Therefore, the importation property's basis would exceed its value and the transfer is a loss importation transaction.

(D) *Application of section 362(e)(1) and this section to importation property received in loss importation transaction.* Because the importation property, the 80 percent portion of A1, was transferred in a loss importation transaction, section 362(e)(1) and paragraph (b)(1) of this section apply and DC's basis in that portion of A1 will be equal to its $120 value.

(E) *Basis of property received in transaction.* Following the application of section 362(e)(1) and this section, the provisions of section 362(e)(2) must be taken into account because the transfer is a section 362(a) transaction. Taking into account the application of section 362(e)(1) and this section but without taking into account the provisions of section 362(e)(2), DC's aggregate basis in A1 would be $160 (the sum of the $120 basis in the 80 percent importation portion of A1, as determined under paragraph (iii)(D) of this *Example 6,* and the $40 basis in the 20 percent portion of A1 that is not importation property, determined under section 362(a). See paragraph (e)(3) of this section). Further, A1's value immediately after the transfer would be $150. Therefore, InsCo has a net built-in loss in A1, and InsCo's transfer of A1 is a loss duplication transaction. Accordingly, under the general rule of section 362(e)(2), InsCo's $10 net built-in loss ($160 basis over $150 value) would be allocated to reduce DC's basis in the loss asset, A1, the only loss property transferred by InsCo. As a result, DC's basis in A1 would be $150 ($160 basis under section 362(a) and this section, reduced by the $10 net built-in loss). Under section 358, InsCo's basis in the DC stock received in the exchange will be $200. See § 1.362-4.

(iv) *Transfer with election to apply section 362(e)(2)(C).* The facts are the same as in paragraph (iii)(A) of this *Example 6,* except that InsCo and DC elect to apply section 362(e)(2)(C) to reduce InsCo's basis in the DC stock received in the exchange. The analysis and results are the same as in paragraphs (iii)(B), (C), (D), and (E) of this *Example 6,* except that the $10 reduction to DC's basis in A1 is not made and, as a result, DC's basis in A1 remains $160; however, InsCo's basis in the DC stock received in the exchange is reduced from $200 to $190.

Example 7.*Transactions involving CFCs.* (i) *Transfer by CFC.* (A) *Facts.* FC is a CFC with 100 shares of stock outstanding. A owns 60 of the shares and F owns the remaining 40 shares. FC owns two assets, A1 (basis $70, value $100), which is used in the conduct of a U.S. trade or business, and A2 (basis $100, value $75), which is not used in the conduct of a U.S. trade or business. FC transfers both assets to DC in a transaction to which section 351 applies.

(B) *Importation property.* If FC had sold A1 immediately before the transaction, any gain or loss recognized on the sale would have been taken into account in determining a federal income tax liability (FC's). See section 882(a). Therefore, A1 is not importation property. If FC had sold A2 immediately before the transaction, FC would not take the gain or loss recognized into account in determining its federal income tax liability, but the gain or loss could be taken into account in determining a section 951 inclusion to FC's U.S. shareholders. However, under paragraph (d)(3) of this section, gain or loss is not deemed taken into account in determining a federal income tax liability solely because it could affect an inclusion under section 951(a). Further, if DC had sold A2 immediately after the transaction, any gain or loss recognized on the sale would have been taken into account in determining a federal income tax liability. Therefore, A2 is importation property.

(C) *Loss importation transaction.* FC's transfer is a section 362 transaction. Furthermore, but for section 362(e)(1) and this section and section 362(e)(2), DC's basis in the importation property, A2, would be $100 and the property's value would be $75 immediately after the transaction. Therefore, the importation property's basis would exceed its value and the transfer is a loss importation transaction.

(D) *Application of section 362(e)(1) and this section to importation property received in loss importation transaction.* Because the importation property, A2, was transferred in a loss importation transaction, paragraph (b)(1) of this section applies and DC's basis in A2 will be equal to A2's $75 value immediately after the transfer.

(E) *Basis of property received in transaction.* Following the application of section 362(e)(1) and this section, the provisions of section 362(e)(2) must be taken into account because the transfer is a section 362(a) transaction. Taking into account the application of section 362(e)(1) and this section but without taking into account the provisions of section 362(e)(2), DC would have an aggregate basis of $145 in the transferred properties ($70 in A1, determined under section 362(a), plus $75 in A2, determined under this section) and the properties would have an aggregate value of $175 ($100 + $75) immediately after the transfer. Therefore, FC does not have a net built-in loss, FC's transfer is not a loss duplication transaction, and section 362(e)(2) does not apply to the transaction. DC's basis in A1 will be $70, determined under section 362(a), and DC's basis in A2 will be $75, as determined under paragraph (i)(D) of this *Example 7.* Under the general rule in section 358(a), FC receives the DC stock with a basis of $170 ($70 attributable to A1 plus $100 attributable to A2).

(ii) *Transfer of CFC stock.* (A) *Facts.* The facts are the same as in paragraph (i)(A) of this *Example 7,* except that A transfers its 60 shares of FC stock (basis $80, value $105) and F transfers its 40 shares of FC stock (basis $100, value $70) to DC in an exchange that qualifies under section 351.

(B) *Importation property.* If A had sold its FC shares immediately before the transaction, any gain or loss recognized on the sale would have been taken into account in determining a federal income tax liability (A's). Therefore, A's FC shares are not importation property. However, if F had sold its FC shares immediately before the transaction, no gain or loss recognized on the sale would have been taken into account in determining a federal income tax liability. Further, if DC had sold F's FC shares immediately after the transaction, any gain or loss recognized on the sale would have been taken into account in determining a federal income tax liability. Therefore, F's FC shares are importation property.

(C) *Loss importation transaction.* The transfer of the FC shares is a section 362 transaction. Furthermore, but for section 362(e)(1) and this section and section 362(e)(2), DC's aggregate basis in the importation property, F's shares of FC stock, would be $100 under section 362(a) and the shares' aggregate value would be $70. Therefore, the importation property's aggregate basis would exceed its aggregate value, and the transfer is a loss importation transaction.

(D) *Application of section 362(e)(1) and this section to importation property received in loss importation transaction.* Because the importation property, F's shares of FC stock, was transferred in a loss importation transaction, paragraph (b)(1) of this section applies and DC's aggregate basis in the shares will be equal to their $70 aggregate value immediately after the transfer.

(E) *Basis of property received in transaction.* Following the application of section 362(e)(1) and this section, the provisions of section 362(e)(2) must be taken into account because the transfer is a section 362(a) transaction. The application of section 362(e)(2) is determined separately for each transferor. See § 1.362-4(b).

(*1*) *A's transfer.* Taking into account the application of section 362(e)(1) and this section, DC's aggregate basis in the shares ($80 under section 362(a)) would not exceed the shares' value ($105) immediately after the transaction. Therefore A does not have a built-in loss, A's transfer is not a loss duplication transaction, and section 362(e)(2) does not apply to A's transfer. DC's aggregate basis in A's shares, determined under section 362(a), is $80. Under section 358(a), A receives the DC stock with a basis of $80.

(*2*) *F's transfer.* Taking into account the application of section 362(e)(1) and this section, DC's aggregate basis in the shares would not exceed their value immediately after the transaction. Therefore, F does not have a built-in loss, F's transfer is not a loss duplication transaction, and section 362(e)(2) does not apply to F's transfer. DC's aggregate basis in F's shares, as determined under paragraph (ii)(D) of this *Example 7,* is $70. Under section 358(a), F receives the DC stock with a basis of $100.

Example 8.*Property subject to withholding tax.* (i) *Facts.* FC owns a share of DC1 stock (basis $100, value $70) as an investment. FC receives dividends on the share that are subject to federal withholding tax of 30 percent of the amount received under section 881(a); under section 1442(a), DC1 must withhold tax on the dividends paid. FC transfers the DC1 share to DC in a transaction to which section 351 applies.

(ii) *Importation property.* Although any dividends received with respect to the DC1 stock were subject to withholding tax, if FC had sold the share of stock of DC1, no gain or loss recognized on the sale would have been taken into account in determining a federal income tax liability. See section 865(a)(2). Further, if DC had sold the share of DC1 stock immediately after the transaction, any gain or loss recognized on the sale would be taken into account in determining federal income tax liability. Therefore, the share of DC1 stock is importation property.

(iii) *Loss importation transaction.* FC's transfer is a section 362 transaction. Furthermore, but for section 362(e)(1) and this section and section 362(e)(2), DC's basis in the importation property, the share of DC1 stock, would be $100 and the share's value would be $70 immediately after the transaction. Therefore, the share's basis would exceed its value and the transfer is a loss importation transaction.

(iv) *Application of section 362(e)(1) and this section to importation property received in loss importation transaction.* Because the importation property, the DC1 share, was transferred in a loss importation transaction, paragraph (b)(1) of this section applies and DC's basis in the share will be equal to the share's $70 value.

(v) *Basis of property received in transaction.* Following the application of section 362(e)(1) and this section, the provisions of section 362(e)(2) must be taken into account because the transfer is a section 362(a) transaction. Taking into account the application of section 362(e)(1) and this section, DC's basis in the DC1 share would not exceed the share's value immediately after the transaction. Therefore, FC does not have a net built-in loss, FC's transfer is not a loss duplication transaction, and section 362(e)(2) does not apply to the transaction. DC's basis in the DC1 share, as determined under paragraph (iv) of this *Example 8,* is $70. Under section 358, FC's basis in the DC stock received in the exchange will be $100.

Example 9.*Property transferred in triangular reorganization.* (i) *Foreign subsidiary.* (A) *Facts.* P owns the sole outstanding share of stock of FC (basis $1), FC1 owns the sole outstanding share of FC2 (basis $100), and FC2 owns one asset, A1 (basis $100, value $20). In a forward triangular merger described in § 1.358-6(b)(2)(i), FC2 merges with and into FC, and FC1 receives shares of P stock in exchange for its FC2 stock. The forward triangular merger is a transaction described in section 368(a)(2)(D) and, therefore, in section 362(b).

(B) *Determining P's basis in its FC share.* Pursuant to § 1.358-6, for purposes of determining the adjustment to P's basis in its FC shares, P is treated as though it first received A1 in a transaction in which its basis in A1 would be determined under section 362(b) and then it transferred A1 to FC in a transaction in which P's basis in its FC stock would be determined under section 358.

(*1*) *P's deemed acquisition and transfer of A1.* If FC2 had sold A1 for its value immediately before the deemed transaction, no gain or loss recognized on the sale would have been taken into account in determining a federal income tax liability. If P had sold A1 immediately after the deemed transaction, any gain or loss recognized on the sale would have been taken into account in determining a federal income tax liability (P's). Therefore, with respect to P's deemed acquisition, A1 is importation property. Furthermore, immediately after the deemed transaction, P's basis in A1, but for section 362(e)(1) and this section and section 362(e)(2), would be $100 and A1's value is $20. Therefore, the importation property's basis would exceed its value and the transfer is a loss importation transaction. Accordingly, P's deemed basis in A1 will be equal to A1's $20 value.

(*2*) *P's FC stock basis.* As a result of P's deemed transfer of A1 to FC (and applying the principles of § 1.367(b)-13), P's basis in its FC stock is increased by its $20 deemed basis in A1. Accordingly, following the transaction, P's basis in its share of FC stock will be $21 (the sum of its original $1 basis and the $20 adjustment for the deemed transfer of A1).

(C) *FC's basis in A1.* FC's basis in A1 is determined under the rules of this section without regard to the determination of P's adjustment to its basis in FC stock. If FC2 had sold A1 for its value immediately before the transaction, no gain or loss recognized on the sale would have been taken into account in determining a federal income tax liability. However, if FC had sold A1 immediately after the transaction, no gain or loss recognized on the sale would have been taken into account in determining a federal income tax liability, so A1 is not importation property. Accordingly, this section will not apply to the transaction. Although there is a net built-in loss in A1, the transaction is not described in section 362(a), and so section 362(e)(2) and § 1.362-4 will not apply to the transaction. Thus, under section 362(b), FC's basis in A1 will be $100.

(D) *FC1's basis in P stock.* Under section 358, FC1's basis in the P stock it receives in the exchange will be $100.

(ii) *Property transferred to U.S. subsidiary in triangular reorganization.* (A) *Facts.* The facts are the same as in paragraph (i)(A) of this *Example 9,* except that P also owns the sole outstanding share of DC (basis $1) and, instead of merging into FC, FC2 merged into DC.

(B) *Determining P's basis in its DC share.* As determined under paragraph (i)(B)(*2*) of this *Example 9,* P's basis in its DC share is $21, the sum of its original $1 basis plus the $20 adjustment for the deemed transfer of A1.

(C) *DC's basis in A1.* If FC2 had sold A1 for its value immediately before the transaction, no gain or loss recognized on the sale would have been taken into account in determining a federal income tax liability. However, if DC had sold A1 immediately after the transaction, any gain or loss recognized on the sale would have been taken into account in determining a federal income tax liability, so A1 is importation property with respect to DC. Furthermore, immediately after the transaction, DC's basis in A1, but for section 362(e)(1) and this section and section 362(e)(2), would be $100 and A1's value is $20. Therefore, the importation property's basis would exceed its value and the transfer is a loss importation transaction. Accordingly, DC's basis in A1 will be $20, A1's value immediately after the transaction.

(D) *FC1's basis in P stock.* Under section 358, FC1's basis in the P stock it receives in the exchange is $100.

(g) *Applicability date.* This section applies with respect to any transaction occurring on or after *March 28, 2016,* and also with respect to any transaction occurring before such date as a result of an entity classification election under § 301.7701-3 of this chapter filed on or after *March 28, 2016,* unless such transaction is pursuant to a binding agreement that was in effect prior to *March 28, 2016* and at all times thereafter. In addition, taxpayers may apply this section to any transaction occurring after October 22, 2004.

[T.D. 9759, 81 FR 17075, Mar. 28, 2016]