##### § 1.367(b)-3 Repatriation of foreign corporate assets in certain nonrecognition transactions. #####

(a) *Scope.* This section applies to an acquisition by a domestic corporation (the domestic acquiring corporation) of the assets of a foreign corporation (the foreign acquired corporation) in a liquidation described in section 332 or an asset acquisition described in section 368(a)(1).

(b) *Exchange of stock owned directly by a United States shareholder or by certain foreign corporate shareholders—(1) Scope.* This paragraph (b) applies in the case of an exchanging shareholder that is either—

(i) A United States shareholder of the foreign acquired corporation; or

(ii) A foreign corporation with respect to which there are one or more United States shareholders.

(2) *United States shareholder.* For purposes of this section (and for purposes of the other section 367(b) regulation provisions that specifically refer to this paragraph (b)(2)), the term *United States shareholder* means any shareholder described in section 951(b) (without regard to whether the foreign corporation is a controlled foreign corporation), and also any shareholder described in section 953(c)(1)(A) (but only if the foreign corporation is a controlled foreign corporation as defined in section 953(c)(1)(B) subject to the rules of section 953(c)).

(3) *Income inclusion*—(i) *Inclusion of all earnings and profits amount.* An exchanging shareholder shall include in income as a deemed dividend the all earnings and profits amount with respect to its stock in the foreign acquired corporation. For the consequences of the deemed dividend, see § 1.367(b)-2(e). Notwithstanding § 1.367(b)-2(e), however, a deemed dividend from the foreign acquired corporation to an exchanging foreign corporate shareholder shall not qualify for the exception from foreign personal holding company income provided by section 954(c)(3)(A)(i), although it may qualify for the look-through treatment provided by section 904(d)(3) if the requirements of that section are met with respect to the deemed dividend.

(ii) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the rules of paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section:

Example 1.(i) *Facts.* DC, a domestic corporation, owns all of the outstanding stock of FC, a foreign corporation. The stock of FC has a value of $100, and DC has a basis of $30 in such stock. The all earnings and profits amount attributable to the FC stock owned by DC is $20, of which $15 is described in section 1248(a) and the remaining $5 is not (for example, because it accumulated prior to 1963). FC has a basis of $50 in its assets. In a liquidation described in section 332, FC distributes all of its property to DC, and the FC stock held by DC is canceled.

(ii) *Result.* Under paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section, DC must include $20 in income as a deemed dividend from FC. Under section 337(a) FC does not recognize gain or loss in the assets that it distributes to DC, and under section 334(b), DC takes a basis of $50 in such assets.

Example 2.(i) *Facts.* DC, a domestic corporation, owns all of the outstanding stock of FC, a foreign corporation. The stock of FC has a value of $100, and DC has a basis of $30 in such stock. The all earnings and profits amount attributable to the FC stock owned by DC is $75. FC has a basis of $50 in its assets. In a liquidation described in section 332, FC distributes all of its property to DC, and the FC stock held by DC is canceled.

(ii) *Result.* Under paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section, DC must include $75 in income as a deemed dividend from FC. Under section 337(a) FC does not recognize gain or loss in the assets that it distributes to DC, and under section 334(b), DC takes a basis of $50 in such assets.

Example 3.(i) *Facts.* DC, a domestic corporation, owns 80 percent of the outstanding stock of FC, a foreign corporation. DC has owned its 80 percent interest in FC since FC was incorporated. The remaining 20 percent of the outstanding stock of FC is owned by a person unrelated to DC (the minority shareholder). The stock of FC owned by DC has a value of $80, and DC has a basis of $24 in such stock. The stock of FC owned by the minority shareholder has a value of $20, and the minority shareholder has a basis of $18 in such stock. FC's only asset is land having a value of $100, and FC has a basis of $50 in the land. Gain on the land would not generate earnings and profits qualifying under section 1248(d) for an exclusion from earnings and profits for purposes of section 1248. FC has earnings and profits of $20 (determined under the rules of § 1.367(b)-2(d)(2) (i) and (ii)), $16 of which is attributable to the stock owned by DC under the rules of § 1.367(b)-2(d)(3). FC subdivides the land and distributes to the minority shareholder land with a value of $20 and a basis of $10. As part of the same transaction, in a liquidation described in section 332, FC distributes the remainder of its land to DC, and the FC stock held by DC and the minority shareholder is canceled.

(ii) *Result.* Under section 336, FC must recognize the $10 of gain it realizes in the land it distributes to the minority shareholder, and under section 331 the minority shareholder recognizes its gain of $2 in the stock of FC. Such gain is included in income by the minority shareholder as a dividend to the extent provided in section 1248 if the minority shareholder is a United States person that is described in section 1248(a)(2). Under § 1.367(b)-2(d)(2)(iii), the $10 of gain recognized by FC increases its earnings and profits for purposes of computing the all earnings and profits amount and, as a result, $8 of such increase (80 percent of $10) is considered to be attributable to the FC stock owned by DC under § 1.367(b)-2(d)(3)(i)(A)(*1*). DC's all earnings and profits amount with respect to its stock in FC is $24 (the $16 of initial all earnings and profits amount with respect to the FC stock held by DC, plus the $8 addition to such amount that results from FC's recognition of gain on the distribution to the minority shareholder). Under paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section, DC must include the $24 all earnings and profits amount in income as a deemed dividend from FC.

Example 4.(i) *Facts.* DC1, a domestic corporation, owns all of the outstanding stock of DC2, a domestic corporation. DC1 also owns all of the outstanding stock of FC, a foreign corporation. The stock of FC has a value of $100, and DC1 has a basis of $30 in such stock. The assets of FC have a value of $100. The all earnings and profits amount with respect to the FC stock owned by DC1 is $20. In a reorganization described in section 368(a)(1)(D), DC2 acquires all of the assets of FC solely in exchange for DC2 stock. FC distributes the DC2 stock to DC1, and the FC stock held by DC1 is canceled.

(ii) *Result.* DC1 must include $20 in income as a deemed dividend from FC under paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section. Under section 361, FC does not recognize gain or loss in the assets that it transfers to DC2 or in the DC2 stock that it distributes to DC1, and under section 362(b) DC2 takes a basis in the assets that it acquires from FC equal to the basis that FC had therein. Under § 1.367(b)-2(e)(3)(ii) and section 358(a)(1), DC1 takes a basis of $50 (its $30 basis in the stock of FC, plus the $20 that was treated as a deemed dividend to DC1) in the stock of DC2 that it receives in exchange for the stock of FC. Under § 1.367(b)-2(e)(3)(iii) and section 312(a), the earnings and profits of FC are reduced by the $20 deemed dividend.

Example 5.(i) *Facts.* DC1, a domestic corporation, owns all of the outstanding stock of FC1, a foreign corporation. FC1 owns all of the outstanding stock of FC2, a foreign corporation. The all earnings and profits amount with respect to the FC2 stock owned by FC1 is $20. In a reorganization described in section 368(a)(1)(A), DC2, a domestic corporation unrelated to FC1 or FC2, acquires all of the assets and liabilities of FC2 pursuant to a State W merger. FC2 receives DC2 stock and distributes such stock to FC1. The FC2 stock held by FC1 is canceled, and FC2 ceases its separate legal existence.

(ii) *Result.* FC1 must include $20 in income as a deemed dividend from FC2 under paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section. The deemed dividend is treated as a dividend for purposes of the Internal Revenue Code as provided in § 1.367(b)-2(e)(2); however, under paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section the deemed dividend cannot qualify for the exception from foreign personal holding company income provided by section 954(c)(3)(A)(i), even if the provisions of that section would otherwise have been met in the case of an actual dividend.

Example 6.(i) *Facts.* DC1, a domestic corporation, owns 99 percent of USP, a domestic partnership. The remaining 1 percent of USP is owned by a person unrelated to DC1. DC1 and USP each directly own 9 percent of the outstanding stock of FC, a foreign corporation that is not a controlled foreign corporation subject to the rule of section 953(c). In a reorganization described in section 368(a)(1)(C), DC2, a domestic corporation, acquires all of the assets and liabilities of FC in exchange for DC2 stock. FC distributes to its shareholders DC2 stock, and the FC stock held by its shareholders is canceled.

(ii) *Result.* (A) DC1 and USP are United States persons that are exchanging shareholders in a transaction described in paragraph (a) of this section. As a result, DC1 and USP are subject to the rules of paragraph (b) of this section if they qualify as United States shareholders as defined in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. Alternatively, if they do not qualify as United States shareholders as defined in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, DC1 and USP are subject to the rules of paragraph (c) of this section. Paragraph (b)(2) of this section defines the term United States shareholder to include any shareholder described in section 951(b) (without regard to whether the foreign corporation is a controlled foreign corporation). A shareholder described in section 951(b) is a United States person that is considered to own, applying the rules of section 958(a) and 958(b), 10 percent or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock entitled to vote of a foreign corporation. Under section 958(b), the rules of section 318(a), as modified by section 958(b) and the regulations thereunder, apply so that, in general, stock owned directly or indirectly by a partnership is considered as owned proportionately by its partners, and stock owned directly or indirectly by a partner is considered as owned by the partnership. Thus, under section 958(b), DC1 is treated as owning its proportionate share of FC stock held by USP, and USP is treated as owning all of the FC stock held by DC1.

(B) Accordingly, for purposes of determining whether DC1 is a United States shareholder under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, DC1 is considered as owning 99 percent of the 9 percent of FC stock held by USP. Because DC1 also owns 9 percent of FC stock directly, DC1 is considered as owning more than 10 percent of FC stock. DC1 is thus a United States shareholder of FC under paragraph (b)(2) of this section and, as a result, is subject to the rules of paragraph (b) of this section. However, for purposes of determining DC1's all earnings and profits amount, DC1 is not treated as owning the FC stock held by USP. Under § 1.367(b)-2(d)(3), DC1's all earnings and profits amount is determined by reference to the 9 percent of FC stock that it directly owns.

(C) For purposes of determining whether USP is a United States shareholder under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, USP is considered as owning the 9 percent of FC stock held by DC1. Because USP also owns 9 percent of FC stock directly, USP is considered as owning more than 10 percent of FC stock. USP is thus a United States shareholder of FC under paragraph (b)(2) of this section and, as a result, is subject to the rules of paragraph (b) of this section. However, for purposes of determining USP's all earnings and profits amount, USP is not treated as owning the FC shares held by DC1. Under § 1.367(b)-2(d)(3), USP's all earnings and profits amount is determined by reference to the 9 percent of FC stock that it directly owns.

(iii) *Recognition of exchange gain or loss with respect to capital.* [Reserved]

(4) *Reserved.* For further guidance concerning section 367(b) exchanges occurring before February 23, 2001, see § 1.367(b)-3T(b)(4).

(c) *Exchange of stock owned by a United States person that is not a United States shareholder*—(1) *Scope.* This paragraph (c) applies in the case of an exchanging shareholder that is a United States person not described in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section (*i.e.,* a United States person that is not a United States shareholder of the foreign acquired corporation).

(2) *Requirement to recognize gain.* An exchanging shareholder described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall recognize realized gain (but not loss) with respect to the stock of the foreign acquired corporation.

(3) *Election to include all earnings and profits amount.* In lieu of the treatment prescribed by paragraph (c)(2) of this section, an exchanging shareholder described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section may instead elect to include in income as a deemed dividend the all earnings and profits amount with respect to its stock in the foreign acquired corporation. For the consequences of a deemed dividend, see § 1.367(b)-2(e). Such election may be made only if—

(i) The foreign acquired corporation (or its successor in interest) has provided the exchanging shareholder information to substantiate the exchanging shareholder's all earnings and profits amount with respect to its stock in the foreign acquired corporation; and

(ii) The exchanging shareholder complies with the section 367(b) notice requirement described in § 1.367(b)-1(c), including the specific rules contained therein concerning the time and manner for electing to apply the rules of this paragraph (c)(3).

(4) *De minimis exception.* This paragraph (c) shall not apply in the case of an exchanging shareholder whose stock in the foreign acquired corporation has a fair market value of less than $50,000 on the date of the section 367(b) exchange.

(5) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the rules of this paragraph (c):

Example 1.(i) *Facts.* DC1, a domestic corporation, owns 5 percent of the outstanding stock of FC, a foreign corporation that is not a controlled foreign corporation subject to the rule of section 953(c). Persons unrelated to DC1 own the remaining 95 percent of the outstanding stock of FC. DC1 has owned its 5 percent interest in FC since FC was incorporated. DC1's stock in FC has a basis of $40,000 and a value of $100,000. The all earnings and profits amount with respect to DC1's stock in FC is $50,000. In a reorganization described in section 368(a)(1)(C), DC2, a domestic corporation, acquires all of the assets and liabilities of FC in exchange for DC2 stock. FC distributes DC2 stock to its shareholders, and the FC stock held by its shareholders is canceled.

(ii) *Alternate result 1.* If DC1 does not make the election described in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, then the general rule of paragraph (c)(2) of this section applies and DC1 must recognize its $60,000 gain in the FC stock. Under section 358(a)(1), DC1 has a $100,000 basis (its $40,000 basis in the FC stock, plus the $60,000 recognized gain) in the DC2 stock that it receives in exchange for its FC stock. Because DC1 is not a shareholder described in section 1248(a)(2), section 1248 does not apply to recharacterize any of DC1's gain as a dividend.

(iii) *Alternate result 2.* If DC1 makes a valid election under paragraph (c)(3) of this section, then DC1 must include in income as a deemed dividend the $50,000 all earnings and profits amount with respect to its FC stock. Under § 1.367(b)-2(e)(3) and section 358(a)(1), DC1 has a $90,000 basis (its $40,000 basis in the FC stock, plus the $50,000 that was treated as a deemed dividend to DC1) in the DC2 stock that it receives in exchange for its FC stock.

Example 2.(i) *Facts.* The facts are the same as in *Example 1,* except that DC1's stock in FC has a fair market value of $48,000 on the date DC1 receives the DC2 stock.

(ii) *Result.* Because DC1's stock in FC has a fair market value of less than $50,000 on the date of the section 367(b) exchange, the de minimis exception of paragraph (c)(4) of this section applies. As a result, DC1 is not subject to the gain or income inclusion requirements of this paragraph (c).

(d) *Carryover of certain foreign taxes*—(1) *Rule.* Excess foreign taxes under section 904(c) allowable to the foreign acquired corporation under section 906 shall carry over to the domestic acquiring corporation and become allowable under section 901, subject to the limitations prescribed by the Internal Revenue Code (for example, sections 383, 904 and 907). The domestic acquiring corporation shall not succeed to any other foreign taxes paid or incurred by the foreign acquired corporation.

(2) *Example.* The following example illustrates the rules of this paragraph (d):

Example.(i) *Facts.* DC, a domestic corporation owns 100 percent of the outstanding stock of FC, a foreign corporation. FC has net positive earnings and profits, none of which are attributable to DC's FC stock under § 1.367(b)-2(d)(3). FC has paid foreign taxes that are not eligible for credit under section 906. In a liquidation described in section 332, FC distributes all of its property to DC, and the FC stock held by DC is canceled.

(ii) *Result.* The liquidation of FC into DC is a section 367(b) exchange. Thus, DC is subject to the section 367(b) regulations, and must file a section 367(b) notice pursuant to § 1.367(b)-1(c). Pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the foreign taxes paid by FC do not carryover to DC because FC's foreign taxes are not eligible for credit under section 906.

(e) *Net operating loss and capital loss carryovers.* A net operating loss or capital loss carryover of the foreign acquired corporation is described in section 381(c)(1) and (c)(3) and thus is eligible to carry over from the foreign acquired corporation to the domestic acquiring corporation only to the extent the underlying deductions or losses were allowable under chapter 1 of subtitle A of the Internal Revenue Code. Thus, only a net operating loss or capital loss carryover that is effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business within the United States (or that is attributable to a permanent establishment, in the context of an applicable United States income tax treaty) is eligible to be carried over under section 381. For further guidance, see Rev. Rul. 72-421 (1972-2 C.B. 166) (see also § 601.601(d)(2) of this chapter).

(f) *Carryover of earnings and profits*—(1) General rule. Except to the extent otherwise specifically provided (see, e.g., Notice 89-79 (1989-2 C.B. 392) (see also § 601.601(d)(2) of this chapter)), earnings and profits of the foreign acquired corporation that are not included in income as a deemed dividend under the section 367(b) regulations (or deficit in earnings and profits) are eligible to carry over from the foreign acquired corporation to the domestic acquiring corporation under section 381(c)(2) only to the extent such earnings and profits (or deficit in earnings and profits) are effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business within the United States (or are attributable to a permanent establishment in the United States, in the context of an applicable United States income tax treaty). All other earnings and profits (or deficit in earnings and profits) of the foreign acquired corporation shall not carry over to the domestic acquiring corporation and, as a result, shall be eliminated.

(2) *Previously taxed earnings and profits.* [Reserved]

(g) *All earnings and profits amount adjusted for excess asset basis*—(1) *General rule.* If there is excess asset basis with respect to a foreign acquired corporation and the condition described in paragraph (g)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section is satisfied, then, except as provided in paragraph (g)(5) of this section, an exchanging shareholder to which paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section applies must compute the all earnings and profits amount with respect to its stock in the foreign acquired corporation as if, immediately before the inbound nonrecognition transaction, the foreign acquired corporation had received a distribution of property from a foreign subsidiary under section 301 in an amount equal to the specified earnings. In addition, the deemed distribution described in the preceding sentence is treated as occurring for all purposes of the Internal Revenue Code. For purposes of this paragraph (g)(1), the amount of the distribution from a foreign subsidiary is equal to the amount of earnings and profits of that foreign subsidiary that is designated as specified earnings under paragraph (g)(3) of this section. In the case of a foreign subsidiary the stock of which is not held directly by the foreign acquired corporation, the distribution is treated as being made through any intermediate owners, or directly from any constructively owned foreign subsidiaries, where applicable. For purposes of this paragraph (g)(1), references to the foreign acquired corporation, S, and a foreign subsidiary include any predecessor corporation.

(i) S previously acquired in exchange for property stock or securities of the foreign acquired corporation in connection with a triangular reorganization described in § 1.358-6(b)(2), and the foreign acquired corporation and S did not make adjustments that have the effect of a distribution of property from S to the foreign acquired corporation under § 1.367(b)-10(b)(1).

(ii) The excess asset basis is attributable, directly or indirectly, to property previously provided by a foreign subsidiary of the foreign acquired corporation in connection with a transaction not described in paragraph (g)(1)(i) of this section and undertaken with a principal purpose to create such excess asset basis.

(2) *Definitions.* The following definitions apply for purposes of this paragraph (g).

(i) *Excess asset basis.* The term *excess asset basis* means, with respect to a foreign acquired corporation, the amount by which the inside asset basis of that corporation exceeds the sum of the following amounts:

(A) The earnings and profits of the foreign acquired corporation attributable to its outstanding stock. For purposes of this paragraph (g)(2)(i)(A), such earnings and profits are determined under the principles of § 1.367(b)-2(d) but without regard to whether the exchanging shareholder is described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section or whether the exchanging shareholder is a U.S. person or a foreign person. Such earnings and profits include amounts described in section 1248(d)(3) or (4).

(B) The aggregate basis in the outstanding stock of the foreign acquired corporation determined immediately before the nonrecognition transaction described in paragraph (a) of this section (the inbound nonrecognition transaction) and therefore without regard to any basis increase described in § 1.367(b)-2(e)(3)(ii) resulting from such inbound nonrecognition transaction.

(C) The aggregate amount of liabilities of the foreign acquired corporation that are assumed (determined under the principles of section 357(d)) by the domestic acquiring corporation in the inbound nonrecognition transaction.

(ii) *Foreign subsidiary.* The term *foreign subsidiary* means, with respect to a foreign acquired corporation, a foreign corporation with respect to which the foreign acquired corporation satisfies the ownership requirements of section 1248(c)(2)(B) but for this purpose treating the foreign acquired corporation as the United States person referred to in section 1248(c)(2)(B).

(iii) *Inbound nonrecognition transaction.* The term *inbound nonrecognition transaction* has the meaning set forth in paragraph (g)(2)(i)(B) of this section.

(iv) *Inside asset basis.* The term *inside asset basis* means, with respect to a foreign acquired corporation, the aggregate of the adjusted basis of all the assets of that corporation in the hands of the domestic acquiring corporation determined immediately after the inbound nonrecognition transaction.

(v) *Lower-tier earnings.* The term *lower-tier earnings* means, with respect to a foreign acquired corporation, the sum of the earnings and profits (including deficits) of each foreign subsidiary.

(vi) *Property.* The term *property* has the same meaning as in § 1.367(b)-10(a)(3)(ii).

(vii) *S.* The term *S* has the same meaning as in § 1.367(b)-10(a)(3)(i).

(viii) *Specified earnings.* The term *specified earnings* means, with respect to a foreign acquired corporation, the lesser of the following amounts:

(A) Lower-tier earnings; and

(B) The excess asset basis of the foreign acquired corporation.

(3) *Designation of specified earnings.* If lower-tier earnings exceed specified earnings, then the portion of lower-tier earnings that is designated as specified earnings is determined by reference to the earnings and profits of each foreign subsidiary on a pro rata basis in proportion to each foreign subsidiary's share of lower-tier earnings.

(4) *Anti-abuse rule.* Appropriate adjustments are made pursuant to this section if a transaction is engaged in with a view to avoid the purposes of this paragraph (g). For example, if a transaction is engaged in with a view to reduce excess asset basis, including by increasing the basis in the stock of the foreign acquired corporation without a corresponding increase in the basis of the assets of the foreign acquired corporation, that increase in the basis in the stock of the foreign acquired corporation will be disregarded for purposes of computing excess asset basis.

(5) *Prohibition against affirmative use.* This paragraph (g) does not apply to an inbound nonrecognition transaction if a transaction described in paragraph (g)(1) of this section was entered into with a principal purpose of subjecting the inbound nonrecognition transaction to this paragraph (g). For example, this paragraph (g) will not apply to an inbound nonrecognition transaction if a taxpayer engaged in a transaction described in paragraph (g)(1) of this section with a principal purpose of accessing tax attributes of lower-tier foreign subsidiaries by reason of a deemed distribution of lower-tier earnings of the foreign acquired corporation.

(6) *Examples.* The application of this paragraph (g) is illustrated by the examples in this paragraph (g)(6). In each example, all corporations have a calendar year-end and use the United States dollar as their functional currency.

(i) *Example 1: Excess asset basis from triangular reorganization*—(A) *Facts.* USP, a domestic corporation, owns all of the stock of USS, also a domestic corporation, and 80 percent of the stock of FP, a foreign corporation. USS owns the remaining 20 percent of the stock of FP. FP owns all of the stock of FS1, which in turn owns all of the stock of FS2. Both FS1 and FS2 are foreign corporations. In a reorganization described in section 368(a)(1)(F) (F reorganization), US Newco, a newly formed domestic corporation, acquires all of the assets of FP solely in exchange for stock of US Newco, which FP distributes to USP and USS in liquidation. Immediately before the F reorganization, the stock of FP owned by USP has a fair market value of $80x and an adjusted basis of $4x. The stock of FP owned by USS has a fair market value of $20x and an adjusted basis of $1x. The all earnings and profits amounts with respect to USP's stock of FP and USS's stock of FP, determined before any adjustments required by paragraph (g)(1) of this section, are $32x and $8x, respectively. FP holds assets with an adjusted basis of $95x, has no liabilities, and has $40x of earnings and profits attributable to its outstanding stock. FS1 and FS2 have $30x and $70x of earnings and profits, respectively, all of which are described in section 959(c)(3). Dividends paid by FS2 to FS1, and by FS1 to FP, would qualify for the exception to foreign personal holding company income under section 954(c)(6). Before the applicability date described in paragraph (g)(7)(i) of this section, and separate from the F reorganization, FS1 provided property to FP in exchange for stock of FP in connection with a triangular reorganization described in § 1.358-6(b)(2), and neither FP nor FS1 made adjustments that had the effect of a distribution of property from FS1 to FP under § 1.367(b)-10(b)(1).

(B) *Analysis*—(*1*) *All earnings and profits amount.* The F reorganization is an asset acquisition described in section 368(a)(1) and is thus subject to section 367(b) and this section. Under paragraph (b)(3) of this section, USP and USS each must include in income as a deemed dividend the all earnings and profits amount with respect to their stock of FP. Because there is excess asset basis with respect to FP (as determined in paragraph (g)(6)(i)(B)(*2*) of this section), USP and USS must compute the all earnings and profits amounts attributable to their stock of FP as if FP had received a distribution of specified earnings, immediately before the F reorganization. *See* paragraph (g)(1) of this section. Because the stock of FS2 is indirectly owned by FP, to the extent the specified earnings are determined by reference to the earnings and profits of FS2, FS2 is treated as making a distribution to FS1 under section 301, and FS1 is then treated as making a distribution to FP under section 301 in an amount equal to the sum of the amount of specified earnings determined by reference to the earnings and profits of FS1 (determined without regard to the deemed distribution from FS2) and the amount of the deemed distribution received from FS2. *See id.*

(*2*) *Excess asset basis.* The amount of excess asset basis is $50x, calculated as the amount by which FP's inside asset basis ($95x) exceeds the sum of FP's earnings and profits ($40x), the aggregate basis in the outstanding stock of FP ($5x), and the amount of liabilities of FP assumed by US Newco in the F reorganization ($0). *See* paragraph (g)(2)(i) of this section.

(*3*) *Deemed distribution of specified earnings.* The amount of specified earnings equals $50x, the lesser of the following amounts: the sum of the earnings and profits of FS1 and FS2 ($100x); and the amount of excess asset basis with respect to FP ($50x). *See* paragraph (g)(2)(viii) of this section. FP is accordingly treated as receiving a distribution of $50x from FS1. *See* paragraph (g)(1) of this section. Under paragraph (g)(3) of this section, $15x ($50x × ($30x/$100x)) of FS1's earnings and profits and $35x ($50x × ($70x/$100x)) of FS2's earnings and profits are designated as specified earnings. FS2 is treated as distributing $35x to FS1. *See* paragraph (g)(1) of this section. Under sections 301(c)(1) and 954(c)(6), the $35x deemed distribution from FS2 to FS1 is treated as a dividend that does not give rise to foreign personal holding company income. FS1 must accordingly increase its earnings and profits described in section 959(c)(3) by $35x to $65x, and FS2 must decrease its earnings and profits described in section 959(c)(3) by the same amount. FS1 is then treated as making a distribution of $50x to FP. *See* paragraph (g)(1) of this section. Under sections 301(c)(1) and 954(c)(6), the $50x deemed distribution is also treated as a dividend that does not give rise to foreign personal holding company income. FP must accordingly increase its earnings and profits described in section 959(c)(3) by $50x to $90x, and FS1 must decrease its earnings and profits described in section 959(c)(3) by the same amount.

(*4*) *Adjusted all earnings and profits amount attributable to USP's FP stock.* USP must compute the all earnings and profits amount attributable to its stock of FP after taking into account the $50x increase to FP's earnings and profits that resulted from the deemed distribution of specified earnings. *See* paragraph (g)(1) of this section. Because USP owns 80% of the stock of FP, $40x (calculated as 80% of $50x) of the specified earnings are attributable to USP's stock of FP and are included in the all earnings and profits amount attributable to USP's stock of FP. The all earnings and profits amount that USP must include in income as a deemed dividend is therefore $72x ($32x + $40x).

(*5*) *Adjusted all earnings and profits amount attributable to USS's FP stock.* USS must compute the all earnings and profits amount attributable to its stock of FP after taking into account the $50x increase to FP's earnings and profits that resulted from the deemed distribution of specified earnings. *See* paragraph (g)(1) of this section. Because USS owns 20% of the stock of FP, $10x (calculated as 20% of $50x) of the specified earnings are attributable to USS's stock of FP and are included in the all earnings and profits amount attributable to USS's stock of FP. The all earnings and profits amount that USS must include in income as a deemed divided is therefore $18x ($8x + $10x).

(ii) *Example 2: Principal purpose of creating excess asset basis*—(A) *Facts.* USP, a domestic corporation, owns all of the stock of FP, which in turn owns all of the stock of FS. Both FP and FS are foreign corporations. The all earnings and profits amount with respect to USP's stock of FP, determined before any adjustments required by paragraph (g)(1) of this section, is $50x. FP has no other earnings and profits other than the $50x that reflect USP's all earnings and profits amount. FS has $200x of earnings and profits, all of which are earnings and profits described in section 959(c)(2) (PTEP) because those earnings and profits gave rise to an earlier income inclusion under section 951 with respect to USP. Increases in stock basis were made under section 961 by reason of USP's section 951 inclusion. FP has excess asset basis of $100x as a result of a previous transaction that was undertaken with a principal purpose of creating excess asset basis in which FS provided $100x of property to FP. At the time of that transaction, FP did not also have a principal purpose of subjecting an inbound nonrecognition transaction to this paragraph (g) and thus paragraph (g)(5) of this section is not applicable. Subsequently, in a liquidation described in section 332, FP distributes all of its assets to USP and the stock of FP is cancelled (the FP liquidation).

(B) *Analysis*—(*1*) *All earnings and profits amount.* The FP liquidation is subject to section 367(b) and this section. Under paragraph (b)(3) of this section, USP must include in income as a deemed dividend the all earnings and profits amount with respect to its stock of FP. Because there is excess asset basis with respect to FP, USP must compute the all earnings and profits amount attributable to its stock of FP as if FP had received a distribution of specified earnings immediately before the FP liquidation. *See* paragraph (g)(1) of this section.

(*2*) *Deemed distribution of specified earnings.* The amount of specified earnings equals $100x, the lesser of the following amounts: the earnings and profits of FS ($200); and the amount of excess asset basis with respect to FP ($100x). *See* paragraph (g)(2)(viii) of this section. FS is accordingly treated as making a distribution of $100x to FP. *See* paragraph (g)(1) of this section. Under sections 301(c)(1) and 959(b), the $100x deemed distribution from FS to FP is treated as a distribution of PTEP that is not included in the gross income of FP for purposes of section 951. The distribution reduces FS's earnings and profits and PTEP with respect to USP by $100x and increases FP's earnings and profits and PTEP with respect to USP by $100x. Furthermore, appropriate adjustments are made under section 961 for the distribution of PTEP.

(*3*) *Adjusted all earnings and profits amount attributable to USP's stock of FP.* USP must compute the all earnings and profits amount attributable to its stock of FP after taking into account the $100x increase to FP's earnings and profits that resulted from the deemed distribution of specified earnings. *See* paragraph (g)(1) of this section. Because the deemed distribution consisted entirely of PTEP with respect to USP, the deemed distribution does not affect USP's all earnings and profits amount of $50x. *See* § 1.367(b)-2(d)(2)(ii). USP must therefore include $50x in income as a deemed dividend under this section. USP must also recognize any foreign currency gain or loss under section 986(c) with respect to the $100x of PTEP of FP. *See* § 1.367(b)-2(j)(2).

(7) *Applicability date*—(i) *In general.* This paragraph (g) (other than paragraphs (g)(2)(viii), (g)(3) and (5) of this section) applies to transactions completed on or after December 2, 2016, and to any transactions treated as completed before December 2, 2016, as a result of an entity classification election made under § 301.7701-3 of this chapter that is filed on or after December 2, 2016. Paragraphs (g)(2)(viii), (g)(3) and (5) of this section apply to transactions completed on or after October 5, 2023.

(ii) *Transactions completed (or elections made) on or after December 2, 2016, and before October 5, 2023.* Except as provided in paragraph (g)(7)(iii) of this section, the following definitions (in lieu of the corresponding definitions or in addition to the definitions in paragraph (g)(2) of this section) and rules apply with respect to transactions completed on or after December 2, 2016, and to any transactions treated as completed before December 2, 2016, as a result of an entity classification election made under § 301.7701-3 of this chapter that is filed on or after December 2, 2016, but before October 5, 2023:

(A) The term *specified earnings* means, with respect to the stock of a foreign acquired corporation that is exchanged by an exchanging shareholder, the lesser of the following amounts (but not below zero):

(*1*) The sum of the earnings and profits (including a deficit) with respect to each foreign subsidiary of the foreign acquired corporation that are attributable under section 1248(c)(2) to the stock of the foreign acquired corporation exchanged (lower-tier earnings). For purposes of the preceding sentence, the modifications described in § 1.367(b)-2(d)(2) and (d)(3)(i) apply. Thus, for example, the amount of the earnings and profits of a foreign subsidiary that are attributable to stock of the foreign acquired corporation is determined without regard to whether the foreign subsidiary was a controlled foreign corporation at any time during the five years preceding the inbound nonrecognition transaction.

(*2*) The product of the excess asset basis of the foreign acquired corporation, multiplied by the exchanging shareholder's specified percentage.

(*3*) The amount of gain that would be realized by the exchanging shareholder if, immediately before the inbound nonrecognition transaction, the exchanging shareholder had sold the stock of the foreign acquired corporation for fair market value, reduced by the exchanging shareholder's all earnings and profits amount (for this purpose, determined without regard to the modifications described in this paragraph (g)) (specified stock gain).

(B) The term *specified percentage* means, with respect to an exchanging shareholder, a fraction (expressed as a percentage), the numerator of which is the sum of the aggregate of the specified stock gain with respect to all exchanging shareholders to which paragraph (b)(3) of this section applies and the aggregate of the gain realized (regardless of whether such gain is recognized) with respect to the stock exchanged by all other exchanging shareholders.

(C) If there is excess asset basis with respect to a foreign acquired corporation, as determined under paragraph (g)(2)(i) of this section, a taxpayer may reduce the excess asset basis to the extent that the excess asset basis is not attributable, directly or indirectly, to property provided by a foreign subsidiary of the foreign acquired corporation. For example, if there was a transfer of property to the foreign acquired corporation described in section 362(e)(2), and the election described in section 362(e)(2)(C) was made to limit the basis in the stock received in the foreign acquired corporation to its fair market value, then, for purposes of determining excess asset basis, the basis in the stock of the foreign acquiring corporation may be determined without regard to the application of section 362(e)(2).

(iii) *Early application.* A taxpayer and its related parties (within the meaning of sections 267(b) and 707(b)(1)) may choose to apply paragraphs (g)(1) through (6) of this section to all open taxable years beginning before July 17, 2024, provided that the taxpayer and its related parties consistently apply paragraphs (g)(1) through (6) of this section and § 1.367(b)-1(c)(4)(ix) for such years.

[T.D. 8862, 65 FR 3601, Jan. 24, 2000; 65 FR 66501, Nov. 6, 2000, as amended by T.D. 9243, 71 FR 4288, Jan. 26, 2006; T.D. 9273, 71 FR 44895, Aug. 8, 2006; T.D. 9959, 87 FR 325, Jan. 4, 2022; T.D. 10004, 89 FR 58279, July 18, 2024]