##### § 46.3 Applicability. #####

(a) *Measurement of average total consolidated assets for a covered institution.* A covered institution's average total consolidated assets is calculated as the average of the covered institution's total consolidated assets, as reported on the covered institution's Call Reports, for the four most recent consecutive quarters. If the covered institution has not filed a Call Report for each of the four most recent consecutive quarters, the covered institution's average total consolidated assets is calculated as the average of the covered institution's total consolidated assets, as reported on the covered institution's Call Reports, for the most recent one or more consecutive quarters. The date on which a national bank or Federal savings association becomes a covered institution shall be the as-of date of the most recent Call Report used in the calculation of the average.

(b) *Covered institutions that become subject to stress testing requirements.* A national bank or Federal savings association that becomes a $10 to $50 billion covered institution on or before March 31 of a given year shall conduct its first annual stress test under this part in the next calendar year after the date the national bank or Federal savings association becomes a $10 to $50 billion covered institution, unless that time is extended by the OCC in writing. A national bank or Federal savings association that becomes a $10 to $50 billion covered institution after March 31 of a given year shall conduct its first annual stress test under this part in the second calendar year after the calendar year in which the national bank or Federal savings association becomes a $10 to $50 billion covered institution, unless that time is extended by the OCC in writing.

(c) *Ceasing to be a covered institution or changing categories.* (1) A covered institution shall remain subject to the stress test requirements based on its applicable category, as defined in § 46.2, unless and until total consolidated assets of the covered institution falls below the relevant size threshold for each of four consecutive quarters as reported by the covered institution's most recent Call Reports. The calculation shall be effective on the “as of” date of the fourth consecutive Call Report.

(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(1) of this section, a national bank or Federal savings association that becomes a $50 billion or over covered institution, whether by migrating from being a $10 to $50 billion covered institution or by directly becoming a $50 billion or over covered institution, after September 30 of a calendar year must comply with the requirements applicable to a $50 billion or over covered institution beginning on January 1 of the third calendar year after the national bank or Federal savings association becomes a $50 billion or over covered institution, unless that time is extended by the OCC in writing. A national bank or Federal savings association that becomes a $50 billion or over covered institution on or before September 30 of a calendar year must comply with the requirements applicable to a $50 billion or over covered institution beginning on January 1 of the second calendar year after the national bank or Federal savings association becomes a $50 billion or over covered institution, unless that time is extended by the OCC in writing.

(d) *Covered institution under bank holding company subject to annual stress test requirements.* (1) Notwithstanding the requirements applicable to a $10 to $50 billion covered institution under this part, a $10 to $50 billion covered institution that is controlled by a bank holding company or savings and loan holding company that is subject to annual stress test requirements pursuant to applicable regulations of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System may elect to conduct its stress test under this part pursuant to the requirements applicable to a $50 billion or over covered institution.

(2) Any $10 to $50 billion covered institution that elects to apply the requirements of a $50 billion or over covered institution under this paragraph shall remain subject to the requirements applicable to an over $50 billion covered institution until otherwise approved by the OCC.

[77 FR 61246, Oct. 9, 2012, as amended at 79 FR 71633, Dec. 3, 2014; 83 FR 7953, Feb. 23, 2018]