##### § 134.1213 Decision on appeal. #####

(a) *Time limits and contents.* The Judge will issue his or her decision within 45 calendar days after the close of record, as practicable. The decision will contain findings of fact and conclusions of law, the reasons for such findings and conclusions, and any relief ordered. The decision will be served on each party.

(b) *Initial decision.* The Judge's decision on the appeal is an initial decision. However, unless a request for review is filed pursuant to § 134.228(a), or a request for reconsideration is filed pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section, an initial decision shall become the final decision of SBA 30 calendar days after its service. The final OHA decision creates precedent only for appeals involving the PPP. Any OHA decision pursuant to this subpart L applies only to the PPP and does not apply to SBA's 7(a) Loan Program generally or to any interpretation or application of the regulations in part 120 or part 121 of this title.

(c) *Reconsideration.* An initial decision of the Judge may be reconsidered. Either SBA or the appellant may request reconsideration by filing with the Judge and serving a petition for reconsideration within 10 calendar days after service of the written decision. The request for reconsideration must clearly show an error of fact or law material to the decision. The Judge may also reconsider a decision on his or her own initiative within 20 calendar days after service of the written decision.

(d) *Request for review.* Within 30 calendar days after the service of an initial decision or a reconsidered initial decision of a Judge, any party, or SBA's Office of General Counsel, may file and serve a request for review by the Administrator pursuant to § 134.228(a). In order for a borrower to exhaust its administrative remedies and preserve its right to seek judicial review of an SBA final decision in a federal district court, a borrower that disputes an initial decision or reconsidered initial decision must file and serve a request for review of the initial decision or reconsidered initial decision by the Administrator pursuant to § 134.228(a). If a request for review is filed pursuant to § 134.228(a), the provisions in § 134.228 will apply.

(e) *Publication.* OHA decisions are normally published without redactions on OHA's website. A decision may contain confidential business and financial information or personally identifiable information where that information is either decisionally-significant or otherwise necessary for a comprehensible decision. Where no protective order is in place, a party may request a redacted public decision by contacting OHA. Where a protective order is in place, the Judge will usually issue the unredacted decision under the protective order and a redacted version for public release.