cfr/title-13-Business-Credit-Assistance/chapter-I-Small-Business-Administration/part-124-8a-Business-DevelopmentSmall-Disadvantaged-Business-Status-Determinations/subpart-A-8a-Business-Development/subjectgroup-ECFR3a2020752ea67f7-Exiting-8span-classstandardaspan-BD-Program/section-124.303.md, before:

##### § 124.303 What is termination? #####

Link to an amendment published at 89 FR 102489, Dec. 17, 2024.

(a) SBA may terminate the participation of a concern in the 8(a) BD program prior to the expiration of the concern's Program Term for good cause. Examples of good cause include, but are not limited to, the following:

(1) Submission of false information in the concern's 8(a) BD application, regardless of whether correct information would have caused the concern to be denied admission to the program, and regardless of whether correct information was given to SBA in accompanying documents or by other means.

(2) Failure by the concern to maintain its eligibility for program participation, including failure by an individual owner or manager to continue to meet the requirements for economic disadvantage set forth in § 124.104 where such status is needed for eligibility.

(3) Failure by the concern for any reason, including the death of an individual upon whom eligibility was based, to maintain ownership, full-time day-to-day management, and control by disadvantaged individuals.

(4) Failure by the concern to obtain prior written approval from SBA for any changes in ownership or business structure, management or control pursuant to §§ 124.105 and 124.106.

(5) Failure by the concern to disclose to SBA the extent to which non-disadvantaged persons or firms participate in the management of the Participant business concern.

(6) Failure by the concern or one or more of the concern's principals to maintain good character.

(7) A pattern of failure to make required submissions or responses to SBA in a timely manner, including a failure to provide required financial statements, requested tax returns, reports, updated business plans, information requested by SBA's Office of Inspector General, or other requested information or data within 30 days of the date of request.

(8) Cessation of business operations by the concern.

(9) Failure by the concern to pursue competitive and commercial business in accordance with its business plan, or failure in other ways to make reasonable efforts to develop and achieve competitive viability.

(10) A pattern of inadequate performance by the concern of awarded section 8(a) contracts.

(11) Failure by the concern to pay or repay significant financial obligations owed to the Federal Government.

(12) Failure by the concern to obtain and keep current any and all required permits, licenses, and charters, including suspension or revocation of any professional license required to operate the business.

(13) Excessive withdrawals that are detrimental to the achievement of the targets, objectives, and goals contained in the Participant's business plan, including transfers of funds or other business assets from the concern for the personal benefit of any of its owners or managers, or any person or entity affiliated with the owners or managers (*see* § 124.112(d)).

(14) Unauthorized use of SBA direct or guaranteed loan proceeds or violation of an SBA loan agreement.

(15) Submission by or on behalf of a Participant of false information to SBA, including false certification of compliance with non-8(a) business activity targets under § 124.509 or failure to report changes that adversely affect the program eligibility of an applicant or program participant under § 124.204 and § 124.112, where responsible officials of the 8(a) BD Participant knew or should have known the submission to be false.

(16) Debarment, suspension, voluntary exclusion, or ineligibility of the concern or its principals pursuant to 2 CFR parts 180 and 2700 or FAR subpart 9.4 (48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4). \* \* \*

(17) Conduct by the concern, or any of its principals, indicating a lack of business integrity. Such conduct may be demonstrated by information related to a criminal indictment or guilty plea, a criminal conviction, or a judgment or settlement in a civil case.

(18) Willful failure by the Participant business concern to comply with applicable labor standards and obligations.

(19) Material breach of any terms and conditions of the 8(a) BD Program Participation Agreement.

(20) Willful violation by a concern, or any of its principals, of any SBA regulation pertaining to material issues.

(b) The examples of good cause listed in paragraph (a) of this section are intended to be illustrative only. Other grounds for terminating a Participant from the 8(a) BD program for cause may exist and may be used by SBA.

[63 FR 35739, June 30, 1998, as amended at 76 FR 8258, Feb. 11, 2011; 88 FR 26205, Apr. 27, 2023]

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2025-01-16 issue
Title: 5: Administrative Personnel - Sections changed: 15
Title: 14: Aeronautics and Space - Sections changed: 13
Title: 7: Agriculture - Sections changed: 7
Title: 8: Aliens and Nationality - Sections changed: 1
Title: 9: Animals and Animal Products - Sections changed: 6
Title: 12: Banks and Banking - Sections changed: 4
Title: 13: Business Credit and Assistance - Sections changed: 99
Title: 15: Commerce and Foreign Trade - Sections changed: 29
Title: 18: Conservation of Power and Water Resources - Sections changed: 1
Title: 20: Employees' Benefits - Sections changed: 1
Title: 10: Energy - Sections changed: 4
Title: 21: Food and Drugs - Sections changed: 2
Title: 31: Money and Finance: Treasury - Sections changed: 1
Title: 33: Navigation and Navigable Waters - Sections changed: 1
Title: 38: Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief - Sections changed: 59
Title: 40: Protection of Environment - Sections changed: 38
Title: 42: Public Health - Sections changed: 2
Title: 43: Public Lands: Interior - Sections changed: 3
Title: 45: Public Welfare - Sections changed: 1
Title: 49: Transportation - Sections changed: 16
Title: 50: Wildlife and Fisheries - Sections changed: 16

cfr/title-13-Business-Credit-Assistance/chapter-I-Small-Business-Administration/part-124-8a-Business-DevelopmentSmall-Disadvantaged-Business-Status-Determinations/subpart-A-8a-Business-Development/subjectgroup-ECFR3a2020752ea67f7-Exiting-8span-classstandardaspan-BD-Program/section-124.303.md, after:

##### § 124.303 What is termination? #####

(a) SBA may terminate the participation of a concern in the 8(a) BD program prior to the expiration of the concern's Program Term for good cause. Examples of good cause include, but are not limited to, the following:

(1) Submission of false information in the concern's 8(a) BD application, regardless of whether correct information would have caused the concern to be denied admission to the program, and regardless of whether correct information was given to SBA in accompanying documents or by other means.

(2) Failure by the concern to maintain its eligibility for program participation, including failure by an individual owner or manager to continue to meet the requirements for economic disadvantage set forth in § 124.104 where such status is needed for eligibility.

(3) Failure by the concern for any reason, including the death of an individual upon whom eligibility was based, to maintain ownership, full-time day-to-day management, and control by disadvantaged individuals.

(4) Failure by the concern to obtain prior written approval from SBA for any changes in ownership or business structure, management or control pursuant to §§ 124.105 and 124.106.

(5) Failure by the concern to disclose to SBA the extent to which non-disadvantaged persons or firms participate in the management of the Participant business concern.

(6) Failure by the concern or one or more of the concern's principals to maintain good character.

(7) A pattern of failure to make required submissions or responses to SBA in a timely manner, including a failure to provide required financial statements, requested tax returns, reports, updated business plans, information requested by SBA's Office of Inspector General, or other requested information or data within 30 days of the date of request.

(8) Cessation of business operations by the concern.

(9) Failure by the concern to pursue competitive and commercial business in accordance with its business plan, or failure in other ways to make reasonable efforts to develop and achieve competitive viability.

(10) A pattern of inadequate performance by the concern of awarded section 8(a) contracts.

(11) Failure by the concern to pay or repay significant financial obligations owed to the Federal Government.

(12) Failure by the concern to obtain and keep current any and all required permits, licenses, and charters, including suspension or revocation of any professional license required to operate the business.

(13) Excessive withdrawals that are detrimental to the achievement of the targets, objectives, and goals contained in the Participant's business plan, including transfers of funds or other business assets from the concern for the personal benefit of any of its owners or managers, or any person or entity affiliated with the owners or managers (*see* § 124.112(d)).

(14) Unauthorized use of SBA direct or guaranteed loan proceeds or violation of an SBA loan agreement.

(15) Submission by or on behalf of a Participant of false information to SBA, including false certification of compliance with non-8(a) business activity targets under § 124.509 or failure to report changes that adversely affect the program eligibility of an applicant or program participant under § 124.204 and § 124.112, where responsible officials of the 8(a) BD Participant knew or should have known the submission to be false.

(16) Debarment, suspension, voluntary exclusion, or ineligibility of the concern or its principals pursuant to 2 CFR parts 180 and 2700 or FAR subpart 9.4 (48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4). \* \* \*

(17) Conduct by the concern, or any of its principals, indicating a lack of business integrity. Such conduct may be demonstrated by information related to a criminal indictment or guilty plea, a criminal conviction, or a judgment or settlement in a civil case.

(18) Willful failure by the Participant business concern to comply with applicable labor standards and obligations.

(19) Material breach of any terms and conditions of the 8(a) BD Program Participation Agreement.

(20) Willful violation by a concern, or any of its principals, of any SBA regulation pertaining to material issues.

(b) The examples of good cause listed in paragraph (a) of this section are intended to be illustrative only. Other grounds for terminating a Participant from the 8(a) BD program for cause may exist and may be used by SBA.

(c)(1) A firm that is terminated from the 8(a) BD Program due to the submission of false or misleading information may be removed from SBA's other small business contracting programs, including the HUBZone Program, the Women-Owned Small Business (WOSB) Program, the Veteran Small Business Certification (VetCert) Program, and SBA's Mentor-Protégé Program. In addition, SBA will refer the matter to the SBA Office of Inspector General for review and may recommend that Government-wide debarment or suspension proceedings be initiated.

(2) A firm that is decertified from the HUBZone Program, the WOSB Program, or the VetCert Program due to the submission of false or misleading information may be terminated from the 8(a) BD Program.

(3) SBA may require a firm that is decertified from the HUBZone Program, the WOSB Program, or the VetCert Program due to the submission of false or misleading information to enter into an administrative agreement with SBA as a condition of admission to the 8(a) BD program.

[63 FR 35739, June 30, 1998, as amended at 76 FR 8258, Feb. 11, 2011; 88 FR 26205, Apr. 27, 2023; 89 FR 102489, Dec. 17, 2024]
