##### ยง 800.303 Lending transactions. #####

(a) The extension of a loan or a similar financing arrangement by a foreign person to a U.S. business, regardless of whether accompanied by the creation in the foreign person of a secured interest in securities or other assets of the U.S. business, shall not, by itself, constitute a covered transaction.

(1) The Committee will accept notices concerning a loan or a similar financing arrangement that does not, by itself, constitute a covered transaction only at the time that, because of imminent or actual default or other condition, there is a significant possibility that the foreign person may obtain control of a U.S. business as a result of the default or other condition.

(2) Where the Committee accepts a notice concerning a loan or a similar financing arrangement pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section, and a party to the transaction is a foreign person that makes loans in the ordinary course of business, the Committee will take into account whether the foreign person has made any arrangements to transfer management decisions and day-to-day control over the U.S. business to U.S. nationals for purposes of determining whether such loan or financing arrangement constitutes a covered transaction.

(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, a loan or a similar financing arrangement through which a foreign person acquires an interest in profits of a U.S. business, the right to appoint members of the board of directors of the U.S. business, or other comparable financial or governance rights characteristic of an equity investment but not of a typical loan may constitute a covered transaction.

(c) An acquisition of voting interest or assets of a U.S. business by a foreign person upon default or other condition involving a loan or a similar financing arrangement does not constitute a covered transaction, provided that the loan was made by a syndicate of banks in a loan participation where the foreign lender (or lenders) in the syndicate:

(1) Needs the majority consent of the U.S. participants in the syndicate to take action, and cannot on its own initiate any action vis-ร-vis the debtor; or

(2) Does not have a lead role in the syndicate, and is subject to a provision in the loan or financing documents limiting its ability to control the debtor such that control for purposes of ยง 800.204 could not be acquired.

Example 1.Corporation A, which is a U.S. business, borrows funds from Corporation B, a bank organized under the laws of a foreign state and controlled by foreign persons. As a condition of the loan, Corporation A agrees not to sell or pledge its principal assets to any person. Assuming no other relevant facts, this lending arrangement does not alone constitute a covered transaction.Example 2.Same facts as in Example 1, except that Corporation A defaults on its loan from Corporation B and seeks bankruptcy protection. Corporation A has no funds with which to satisfy Corporation B's claim, which is greater than the value of Corporation A's principal assets. Corporation B's secured claim constitutes the only secured claim against Corporation A's principal assets, creating a high probability that Corporation B will receive title to Corporation A's principal assets, which constitute a U.S. business. Assuming no other relevant facts, the Committee would accept a notice of the impending bankruptcy court adjudication transferring control of Corporation A's principal assets to Corporation B, which would constitute a covered transaction.Example 3.Corporation A, a foreign bank, makes a loan to Corporation B, a U.S. business. The loan documentation extends to Corporation A rights in Corporation B that are characteristic of an equity investment but not of a typical loan, including dominant minority representation on the board of directors of Corporation B and the right to be paid dividends by Corporation B. This loan is a covered transaction.