##### § 1305.16 Lost and stolen DEA Forms 222. #####

(a) If a purchaser ascertains that an unfilled DEA Form 222 has been lost, he or she must execute another in triplicate and attach a statement containing the serial number and date of the lost form, and stating that the goods covered by the first DEA Form 222 were not received through loss of that DEA Form 222. Copy 3 of the second form and a copy of the statement must be retained with Copy 3 of the DEA Form 222 first executed. A copy of the statement must be attached to Copies 1 and 2 of the second DEA Form 222 sent to the supplier. If the first DEA Form 222 is subsequently received by the supplier to whom it was directed, the supplier must mark upon the face “Not accepted” and return Copies 1 and 2 to the purchaser, who must attach it to Copy 3 and the statement.

(b) Whenever any used or unused DEA Forms 222 are stolen or lost (other than in the course of transmission) by any purchaser or supplier, the purchaser or supplier must immediately upon discovery of the theft or loss, report the theft or loss to the Special Agent in Charge of the Drug Enforcement Administration in the Divisional Office responsible for the area in which the registrant is located, stating the serial number of each form stolen or lost.

(c) If the theft or loss includes any original DEA Forms 222 received from purchasers and the supplier is unable to state the serial numbers of the DEA Forms 222, the supplier must report the date or approximate date of receipt and the names and addresses of the purchasers.

(d) If an entire book of DEA Forms 222 is lost or stolen, and the purchaser is unable to state the serial numbers of the DEA Forms 222 in the book, the purchaser must report, in lieu of the numbers of the forms contained in the book, the date or approximate date of issuance.

(e) If any unused DEA Form 222 reported stolen or lost is subsequently recovered or found, the Special Agent in Charge of the Drug Enforcement Administration in the Divisional Office responsible for the area in which the registrant is located must immediately be notified.