##### ยง 60.491 Definitions. #####

(a) All terms which are used in this subpart and are not defined below are given the same meaning as in the Act and subpart A of this part.

(1) *Beverage can* means any two-piece steel or aluminum container in which soft drinks or beer, including malt liquor, are packaged. The definition does not include containers in which fruit or vegetable juices are packaged.

(2) *Exterior base coating operation* means the system on each beverage can surface coating line used to apply a coating to the exterior of a two-piece beverage can body. The exterior base coat provides corrosion resistance and a background for lithography or printing operations. The exterior base coat operation consists of the coating application station, flashoff area, and curing oven. The exterior base coat may be pigmented or clear (unpigmented).

(3) *Inside spray coating operation* means the system on each beverage can surface coating line used to apply a coating to the interior of a two-piece beverage can body. This coating provides a protective film between the contents of the beverage can and the metal can body. The inside spray coating operation consists of the coating application station, flashoff area, and curing oven. Multiple applications of an inside spray coating are considered to be a single coating operation.

(4) *Overvarnish coating operation* means the system on each beverage can surface coating line used to apply a coating over ink which reduces friction for automated beverage can filling equipment, provides gloss, and protects the finished beverage can body from abrasion and corrosion. The overvarnish coating is applied to two-piece beverage can bodies. The overvarnish coating operation consists of the coating application station, flashoff area, and curing oven.

(5) *Two-piece can* means any beverage can that consists of a body manufactured from a single piece of steel or aluminum and a top. Coatings for a two-piece can are usually applied after fabrication of the can body.

(6) *VOC content* means all volatile organic compounds (VOC) that are in a coating. VOC content is expressed in terms of kilograms of VOC per liter of coating solids.

(b) Notations used under ยง 60.493 of this subpart are defined below:

Ca = the VOC concentration in each gas stream leaving the control device and entering the atmosphere (parts per million as carbon)Cb = the VOC concentration in each gas stream entering the control device (parts per million as carbon)Dc = density of each coating, as received (kilograms per liter)Dd = density of each VOC-solvent added to coatings (kilograms per liter)Dr = density of VOC-solvent recovered by an emission control device (kilograms per liter)E = VOC destruction efficiency of the control device (fraction)F = the proportion of total VOC emitted by an affected facility which enters the control device to total emissions (fraction)G = the volume-weighted average of VOC in coatings consumed in a calendar month per volume of coating solids applied (kilograms per liter of coating solids)He = the fraction of VOC emitted at the coater and flashoff areas captured by a collection systemHh = the fraction of VOC emitted at the cure oven captured by a collection systemLc = the volume of each coating consumed, as received (liters)Ld = the volume of each VOC-solvent added to coatings (liters)Lr = the volume of VOC-solvent recovered by an emission control device (liters)Ls = the volume of coating solids consumed (liters)Md = the mass of VOC-solvent added to coatings (kilograms)Mo = the mass of VOC-solvent in coatings consumed, as received (kilograms)Mr = the mass of VOC-solvent recovered by emission control device (kilograms)N = the volume-weighted average mass of VOC emissions to atmosphere per unit volume of coating solids applied (kilograms per liter of coating solids)Qa = the volumetric flow rate of each gas stream leaving the control device and entering the atmosphere (dry standard cubic meters per hour)Qb = the volumetric flow of each gas stream entering the control device (dry standard cubic meters per hour)R = the overall emission reduction efficiency for an affected facility (fraction)Se = the fraction of VOC in coating and diluent VOC-solvent emitted at the coater and flashoff area for a coating operationSh = the fraction of VOC in coating and diluent solvent emitted at the cure oven for a coating operationVs = the proportion of solids in each coating, as received (fraction by volume)Wo = the proportion of VOC in each coating, as received (fraction by weight).[48 FR 38737, Aug. 25, 1983, as amended at 65 FR 61763, Oct. 17, 2000]