##### § 387.301 Surety bond, certificate of insurance, or other securities. #####

Link to an amendment published at 78 FR 52651, Aug. 23, 2013.Link to a delay published at 80 FR 63702, Oct. 21, 2015.Link to an amendment published at 80 FR 63709, Oct. 21, 2015.Link to a delay published at 81 FR 49553, July 28, 2016.Link to a correction published at 81 FR 49554, July 28, 2016.

(a) *Public liability.* (1) No common or contract carrier or foreign (Mexican) motor private carrier or foreign motor carrier transporting exempt commodities subject to Subtitle IV, part B, chapter 135 of title 49 of the U.S. Code shall engage in interstate or foreign commerce, and no certificate or permit shall be issued to such a carrier or remain in force unless and until there shall have been filed with and accepted by the FMCSA surety bonds, certificates of insurance, proof of qualifications as self-insurer, or other securities or agreements, in the amounts prescribed in § 387.303, conditioned to pay any final judgment recovered against such motor carrier for bodily injuries to or the death of any person resulting from the negligent operation, maintenance or use of motor vehicles in transportation subject to Subtitle IV, part B, chapter 135 of title 49 of the U.S. Code, or for loss of or damage to property of others, or, in the case of motor carriers of property operating freight vehicles described in § 387.303(b)(2) of this part, for environmental restoration.

(2) Motor Carriers of property which are subject to the conditions set forth in paragraph (a)(1) of this section and transport the commodities described in § 387.303(b)(2), are required to obtain security in the minimum limits prescribed in § 387.303(b)(2).

(b) *Household goods motor carriers-cargo insurance.* No household goods motor carrier subject to subtitle IV, part B, chapter 135 of title 49 of the U.S. Code shall engage in interstate or foreign commerce, nor shall any certificate be issued to such a household goods motor carrier or remain in force unless and until there shall have been filed with and accepted by the FMCSA, a surety bond, certificate of insurance, proof of qualifications as a self-insurer, or other securities or agreements in the amounts prescribed in § 387.303, conditioned upon such carrier making compensation to individual shippers for all property belonging to individual shippers and coming into the possession of such carrier in connection with its transportation service. The terms “household goods motor carrier” and “individual shipper” are defined in part 375 of this subchapter.

(c) *Continuing compliance required.* Such security as is accepted by the FMCSA in accordance with the requirements of section 13906 of title 49 of the U.S. Code, shall remain in effect at all times.

[48 FR 51780, Nov. 14, 1983, as amended at 60 FR 63981, Dec. 13, 1995; 62 FR 49941, Sept. 24, 1997; 75 FR 35328, June 22, 2010]