##### ยง 201.16 Noxious-weed seeds. #####

(a) Except for those kinds of noxious-weed seeds shown in paragraph (b) of this section, the names of the kinds of noxious-weed seeds and the rate of occurrence of each shall be expressed in the label in accordance with, and the rate of occurrence shall not exceed the rate permitted by, the law and regulations of the state into which the seed is offered for transportation or is transported. If in the course of such transportation, or thereafter, the seed is diverted to another State of destination, the person or persons responsible for such diversion shall cause the seed to be relabeled with respect to the noxious-weed seed content, if necessary to conform to the laws and regulations of the State into which the seed is diverted.

(b) Seeds or bulblets of the following plants shall be considered noxious-weed seeds in agricultural and vegetable seeds transported or delivered for transportation in interstate commerce (including Puerto Rico, Guam, and the District of Columbia). Agricultural or vegetable seed containing seeds or bulblets of these kinds shall not be transported or delivered for transportation in interstate commerce. Noxious-weed seeds include the following species on which no tolerance will be applied:

*Aeginetia* spp.*Ageratina adenophora* (Spreng.) King and H.E. Robins.*Alectra* spp.*Alternanthera sessilis* (L.) DC.*Asphodelus fistulosus* L.*Avena sterilis* L. (including *Avena ludoviciana* Dur.)*Azolla pinnata* R. Br.*Carthamus oxyacantha* M. Bieb*Chrysopogon aciculatus* (Retz.) Trin.*Commelina benghalensis* L.*Crupina vulgaris* Cass.*Digitaria abyssinica Stapf.* (=*D. scalarum* (Schweinf.) Chiov.)*Digitaria scalarum* (Schweinfurth) Chiovenda*Drymaria arenarioides* Roem. and Schult.*Eichornia azurea* (Sw.) Kunth*Emex australis* Steinh.*Emex spinosa* (L.) Campd.*Galega officinalis* L.*Heracleum mantegazzianum* Sommier & Levier*Homeria* spp.*Hydrilla verticillata* (L. f.) Royle*Hygrophila polysperma* T. Anders.*Imperata brasiliensis* Trin.*Imperata cylindrica* (L.) Raeusch.*Ipomoea aquatica* Forsk.*Ischaemum rugosum* Salisb.*Lagarosiphon major* (Ridley) Moss*Leptochloa chinensis* (L.) Nees*Limnophila sessiliflora* (Vahl) Blume*Lycium ferocissimum* Miers*Melaleuca quinquenervia* (Cav.) Blake*Melastoma malabathricum* L.*Mikania cordata* (Burm. f.) B.L. Robins.*Mikania micrantha* H.B.K.*Mimosa invisa* Mart.*Mimosa pigra* L. var. *pigra**Monochoria hastata* (L.) Sloms-Laub.*Monochoria vaginalis* (Burm. f.) K.B. Presl*Nassella trichotoma* (Nees) Arechavaleta*Opuntia aurantiaca* Lindl.*Oryza longistaminata* A. Cheval. and Roehr.*Oryza punctata* Steud.*Oryza rufipogon* Griff.*Ottelia alismoides* (L.) Pers.*Paspalum scrobiculatum* L.*Pennisetum clandestinum* Chiov.*Pennisetum macrourum* Trin.*Pennisetum pedicellatum* Trin.*Pennisetum polystachion* (L.) Schult.*Prosopis alapataco* R.A. Philippi*Prosopis argentina* Burkart*Prosopis articulata* S. Watson*Prosopis burkartii* Munoz*Prosopis caldenia* Burkart*Prosopis calingastana* Burkart*Prosopis campestris* Griseb.*Prosopis castellanosii* Burkart*Prosopis denudans* Benth.*Prosopis elata* (Burkart) Burkart*Prosopis farcta* (Russell) Macbride*Prosopis ferox* Griseb.*Prosopis fiebrigii* Harms*Prosopis hassleri* Harms*Prosopis humilis* Hook. and Arn.*Prosopis kuntzei* Harms*Prosopis pallida* (Willd.) H.B.K.*Prosopis palmeri* S. Watson*Prosopis reptans* Benth. var. *reptans**Prosopis rojasiana* Burkart*Prosopis ruizlealii* Burkart*Prosopis ruscifolia* Griseb.*Prosopis sericantha* Hook. and Arn.*Prosopis strombulifera* (Lam.) Benth.*Prosopis torquata* (Lagasca) DC.*Rottboellia cochinchinensis* (Lour.) Clayton*Rubus fruticosus* L. (complex)*Rubus moluccanus* L.*Saccharum spontaneum* L.*Sagittaria sagittifolia* L.*Salsola vermiculata* L.*Salvinia auriculata* Aubl.*Salvinia biloba* Raddi*Salvinia herzogii* de la Sota*Salvinia molesta* D.S. Mitchell*Senecio inaequidens* DC.*Setaria pallide-fusca* (Schumach.) Stapf and Hubb.*Solanum tampicense* Dunal*Solanum torvum* Sw.*Solanum viarum* Dunal*Sparaganium erectum* L.*Spermacoce alata* (Aublet) de Candolle*Striga* spp.*Tridax procumbens* L.*Urochloa panicoides* Beauv.[65 FR 1706, Jan. 11, 2000, as amended at 76 FR 31794, June 2, 2011]