##### ยง 644.81 General. #####

Sections 644.81 through 644.88 describe the procedures of the Corps of Engineers relating to the acquisition of land and interests therein for both military and civil works projects by purchase, donation and transfer.

(a) *Applicability.* These sections are applicable to all Division and District Engineers having real estate responsibilities.

(b) *Acquisition authority* - (1) *Limitation.* Acquisition of land for use by the United States requires express authorization (10 U.S.C. 2676, 41 U.S.C. 14).

(2) *Military.* Title 10 U.S.C. 2571 authorizes transfer of real property between Defense elements without compensation if the Secretaries approve. Title 10 U.S.C. 2662 provides that acquisition of fee title or transfer of real property owned by the United States to another Federal agency, military department or a state must be reported to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives if the estimated value is more than $50,000 and the transaction may not be consummated until after 30 days have expired from the date the report is submitted to the Committees. Title 10 U.S.C. 2663 provides for acquisition by the Secretary of a military department during time of war or when war is imminent of any interest in land, including temporary use, required for a Defense installation, munitions plant or power plant for production of munitions, through negotiation and purchase, by condemnation or by gift. Title 10 U.S.C. 2672 provides that the Secretary of a military department may acquire any interest in land, including temporary use, by gift, purchase, exchange of United States owned land or otherwise, that he or his designee determines is needed in the interest of national defense and does not cost more than $50,000 exclusive of administrative costs or the amounts of deficiency judgments.

(3) *Civil works.* Acquisition of real property for civil works projects for which provision has been made by law is authorized in 33 U.S.C. 591-595a and 701. As in the case of military projects, the Secretary of the Army is also authorized to accept donations of lands and materials required for civil works projects.

(c) *Rights-of-entry.* Rights-of-entry for construction may be obtained by the Division or District Engineer, after he has been authorized by the Chief of Engineers to acquire the land, pending completion of acquisition by purchase or the filing of condemnation proceedings with declaration of taking. In the event the landowner will not voluntarily grant a right-of-entry, an appraisal of the required interest should be made and negotiations conducted on the basis thereof. If the negotiations are not successful, a declaration of taking should be submitted to acquire the necessary rights. The same procedure will be used for acquiring rights-of-entry for other purposes, such as survey and exploration.