##### § 205.13 Complaints served on the Register of Copyrights pursuant to 17 U.S.C. 411(a). #####

Link to an amendment published at 82 FR 9365, February 6, 2017.

When an action has been instituted pursuant to 17 U.S.C. 411(a) for infringement of the copyright of a work for which registration has been refused, notice of the institution of the action and a copy of the complaint must be served on the Register of Copyrights by sending such documents by registered or certified mail to the General Counsel of the Copyright Office, GC/I&R, P.O. Box 70400, Washington, DC 20024-0400, or delivery by hand addressed to the General Counsel of the Copyright Office and delivered to the Copyright Information Section, U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress, James Madison Memorial Building, Room LM-401, 101 Independence Avenue, SE., Washington, DC. The notice must be in the form of a letter that is clearly identified as a 411(a) notice. Both the letter and the envelope should state: “Section 411(a) Notice to the Register of Copyrights.” In compliance with Fed. R. Civ. P. Sec. 4(i), a notice of the institution of the action and a copy of the complaint must also be served on both the United States Attorney for the district in which the action is brought and the United States Department of Justice, directed to the Attorney General, Attn: Director of Intellectual Property Staff, Civil Division, Department of Justice, Washington, DC 20530.

[69 FR 39334, June 30, 2004, as amended at 73 FR 37840, July 2, 2008]