##### ยง 291.6 Procedures. #####

(a) If HQ, DNA personnel receive a FOIA request that has not been logged and processed through PAO, they will immediately handcarry the request to PAO. TDNM and AFRRI personnel will forward all FOIA requests to HQ, DNA, Attn: PAO. FCDNA will adhere to paragraph 6d and FCDNA Supplement to DNA Instruction 5400.7C.2

2 Copies can be obtained from Defense Nuclear Agency PAO or SSAB, Defense Nuclear Agency, 6801 Telegraph Road, Alexandria, VA 22310-3398.

(b) When a FOIA request is received by PAO, HQ, DNA, the following procedures apply:

(1) The request will be date stamped, reviewed to determine if it meets the requirements of 5 U.S.C. 552, logged in, assigned an action number, suspensed, and attached to a FOIA cover sheet with instructions for forwarding to the appropriate office. A copy of DD Form 2086 or DD Form 2086-1 will also be attached to the FOIA request.

(2) A copy of the request will be handcarried by PAO to the designated HQ, DNA, action office(s) or forwarded to AFRRI or FCDNA, as appropriate. The office or component providing input for the FOIA request must keep track of the request and meet the PAO suspense. The HQ, DNA input, or negative response, if there are no records available, will be handcarried to PAO. AFRRI will send the recommended response in daily distribution. FCDNA will telefax the proposed response in addition to mailing the original. All FOIA actions must include a completed DD Form 2086 or 2086-1. Each office acting on FOIA requests will indicate on the form the search, review/excise and coordination time spent processing the FOIA action, and provide the number of pages copied.

(3) The DNA PAO will prepare the response to the requester and coordinate it with the offices that provided input, the GC, and if appropriate, ISCM, the IDA, the Director, DNA, OASD(PA), and outside agencies, if involved. The PAO will maintain files of all FOIA actions per DNA Instruction 5015.4B.

(4) If a request is received by a DNA office which does not have records responsive but office personnel believe another office would have the records requested, they must contact the other office to confirm the existence of the documents, forward the FOIA action to that office and notify PAO.

(5) *FOIAs involving classified information.* When ISCM or contractor security reviewers receive a classified document from PAO for processing under the FOIA, they will conduct a security review to determine if the document may be sanitized or declassified. Most DNA documents requested under the FOIA are queued on a first-come, first-served basis and shall be reviewed in that order. When security reviewers determine that part or all of the information in a classified document may be sanitized or declassified, they will ensure that the appropriate copies are ordered from the Defense Technical Information Center (DTIC). The DTIC copy will be marked up during review. Cases not placed in queue will be suspensed by PAO. They may include documents with less than 10 pages or documents under suspense from other organizations which require a DNA review. All DNA documents reviewed will be marked with a special pen that does not permit photocopying of the classified portions. Security review must include a detailed response providing the appropriate exemption(s) and justification for withholding.

When the Field Command Security Division (FCSS) receives a classified document for processing under the FOIA, they will conduct a security review to determine if the document may be sanitized or declassified. When FCSS determines that part or all of the information in a classified document may be sanitized or declassified, FCSS will make a copy which will be marked up during review. Upon completion of its review, FCSS will provide the marked up document and a sanitized version of the document to PAO. FCSS review must include a detailed response providing the appropriate exemption(s) and justification for withholding. When ISCM/FCSS completes its review, ISCM/FCSS will forward the master copy to the appropriate technical office(s) for review. That office will determine whether the remaining unclassified information is releaseable and provide its response to ISCM/FCSS. If the office recommends that part or all of the information be withheld, then it must forward a detailed response providing the appropriate exemption(s) and justification for withholding. The technical office will return documents with results of their review to ISCM. ISCM will forward the results of both reviews to PAO for further processing. If either ISCM/FCSS or the DNA office reviewing the action recommends additional review by another agency, they will provide the full name and address of that agency with a technical point-of-contact, if known. PAO will forward the action to that organization for further review. When PAO receives that organization's review determination, it will forward the results to ISCM/FCSS. After all reviews are completed, ISCM/FCSS will sanitize the document and handcarry (FCSS will forward) the sanitized as well as the marked up copy to PAO for final processing.

(6) *FOIAs involving unclassified information.* The appropriate technical office(s) will review unclassified documents for release under the FOIA. If the office(s) determines that part or all of the document should be withheld, it must provide PAO a written recommendation with the appropriate exemption(s) (ยง 291.8) and detailed reasons for withholding the information. Upon PAO request, the technical office(s) will sanitize the unclassified information that is being withheld. Sanitization will be done on a photocopy of the document or on a document that has been obtained from DTIC.