##### ยง 130.40 Reconsideration of denial of petitions. #####

(a) *Right of reconsideration.* Every individual who has filed a petition and has been denied payment may seek reconsideration. To seek such reconsideration, the petitioner must put a request for reconsideration in writing and send it to the Deputy Associate Administrator for Health Professions, Health Resources and Services Administration, Room 8A-54, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, Maryland 20857. The request for reconsideration must be received by the Deputy Associate Administrator for Health Professions within 60 calendar days of the date the Department denied the petition for payment.

(b) *Request for reconsideration.* The request for reconsideration must state the reasons why the petitioner is seeking reconsideration. However, the request for reconsideration may not include any additional documentation that was not included in the completed petition.

(c) *Review process.* When the Deputy Associate Administrator for Health Professions receives a request for reconsideration, he will convene a panel of three individuals, who are independent of the Ricky Ray Program Office, to review the initial determination and make a recommendation regarding payment. The Deputy Associate Administrator for Health Professions will review the panel's recommendation and then determine whether the petitioner is eligible for payment under the Act. The Deputy Associate Administrator for Health Professions' determination will constitute the Department's final action on the request for reconsideration. If the determination is that the petitioner is eligible for payment, the petitioner will receive payment as described in ยง 130.3. If the determination is that the petitioner is not eligible for payment, the Deputy Associate Administrator for Health Professions will inform the petitioner in writing of the reasons for this determination.