##### ยง 404.384 Reductions, suspensions, and nonpayments of special age 72 payments. #####

(a) *General.* Special age 72 payments may not be paid for any month you receive public assistance payments. The payment may be reduced if you or your spouse are eligible for a government pension. In some instances, the special payment may not be paid while you are outside the United States. The rules on when special payments may be suspended, reduced, or not paid are provided in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section.

(b) *Suspension of special age 72 payments when you receive certain assistance payments.* You cannot receive the special payment if supplemental security income or aid to families with dependent children (AFDC) payments are payable to you, or if your needs are considered in setting the amounts of these assistance payments made to someone else. However, if these assistance payments are stopped, you may receive the special payment beginning with the last month for which the assistance payments were paid.

(c) *Reduction of special age 72 payments when you or your spouse are eligible for a government pension.* Special payments are reduced for any regular government pension (or lump-sum payment given instead of a pension) that you or your spouse are eligible for at retirement. A government pension is any annuity, pension, or retirement pay from the Federal Government, a State government or political subdivision, or any organization wholly owned by the Federal or State government. Also included as a government pension is any social security benefit. The term government pension does not include workmen's compensation payments or Veterans Administration payments for a service-connected disability or death.

(d) *Amount of reduction because of a government pension.* If you are eligible for a government pension, the amount of the pension will be subtracted from your special age 72 payment. If your spouse is eligible for a government pension but is not entitled to the special payment, your special payment is reduced (after any reduction due to your own government pension) by the difference between the pension amount and the full special payment amount. If both you and your spouse are entitled to the special payment, each spouse's payment is first reduced by the amount of his or her own government pension (if any). Then, the wife's special payment is reduced by the amount that the husband's government pension exceeds the full special payment. The husband's special payment is also reduced by the amount that the wife's government pension exceeds the full special payment.

(e) *Nonpayment of special age 72 payments when you are not residing in the United States.* No special payment is due you for any month you are not a resident of one of the 50 States, the District of Columbia, or the Northern Mariana Islands. Also, payment to you may not be permitted under the rules in ยง 404.463 if you are an alien living outside the United States.

[44 FR 34481, June 15, 1979, as amended at 49 FR 24116, June 12, 1984]