##### ยง 1.1055-4 Basis of redeemable ground rent reserved or created in connection with transfers of real property before April 11, 1963. #####

(a) *In general.* In the case of a redeemable ground rent created or reserved in connection with a transfer, occurring before April 11, 1963, of the right to hold real property subject to liabilities under such ground rent, the basis of such ground rent on or after April 11, 1963, in the hands of the person who reserved or created the ground rent is the amount which was taken into account in respect of such ground rent in computing the amount realized from the transfer of such real property. Thus, if no such amount was taken into account, such basis shall be determined without regard to section 1055. (See section 1055(b)(3).)

(b) The provisions of this section may be illustrated by the following examples:

Example 1.The taxpayer, who was in the business of building houses, purchased an undeveloped lot of land for $500 and built a house thereon at a cost of $10,000. Subsequently, he transferred the right to hold the lot improved by the house for a consideration of $12,000, and an annual ground rent for such property of $120 which was redeemable for a redemption price of $2,000. The taxpayer reported a $2,000 gain on the transfer, treating the amount realized as $12,000 and his cost allocable to the interest transferred as $10,000. Since the builder did not take the redeemable ground rent into account in computing gain on the transfer, his basis for such ground rent is $500 (the cost of the land not offset against the consideration received for the transfer). Thus, if he subsequently sells the redeemable ground rent (or if it is redeemed from him) for $2,000, he has no gain of $1,500 in the year of sale (or redemption).Example 2.Assume the same facts as in Example 1 except that the builder reported a gain of $3,500 on the transfer, treating the amount realized as $14,000 ($12,000 cash plus $2,000 for the redeemable ground rent) and his costs as $10,500 ($10,000 for the house and $500 for the lot). Since the taxpayer took the entire amount of the redeemable ground rent into account in computing his gain, his basis for such ground rent is $2,000. Thus, if he subsequently sells the redeemable ground rent (or if it is redeemed from him) for $2,000, he has no gain or loss on the transaction.Example 3.Assume the same facts as in Example 1 except that the builder reported a gain of $3,000 on the transfer. He computed this gain by treating the amount realized as $12,000 but treating his cost allocable to the interest transferred as $12,000/$14,000ths of his total $10,500 cost, or $9,000. Since the builder still has remaining $1,500 of unallocated cost, his basis for the redeemable ground rent is $1,500. Thus, if he subsequently sells the redeemable ground rent (or if it is redeemed from him) for $2,000, he has a gain of $500 in the year of sale (or redemption).[T.D. 6821, 30 FR 6217, May 4, 1965]