##### ยง 84.1101 Definitions. #####

As used in this subpart

(a) *Air Contamination Level* means the standards of contaminant levels prescribed by the Secretary of Labor in accordance with the provisions of the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 (Pub. L. 91-596; 84 Stat. 1590).

(b) *DOP* means a homogenous liquid aerosol, having a particle diameter of 0.3 micrometer, which is generated by vaporization and condensation of dioctyl phthalate.

(c) *Pesticide* means:

(1) Any substance or mixture of substances (including solvents and impurities) intended to prevent, destroy, repel, or mitigate any insect, rodent, nematode, fungus, weed, or other form of plant or animal life or virus; and

(2) Any substance or mixture of substances (including solvents and impurities) intended for use as a plant regulator, defoliant, or desiccant, as defined in the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act of 1947, as amended (7 U.S.C. 135-135k), excluding fumigants which are applied as gases or vapors or in a solid or liquid form as pellets or poured liquids for subsequent release as gases or vapors.

(d) *Radionuclide* means an atom identified by the constitution of its nucleus (specified by the number of protons Z, number of neutrons N, and energy, or, alternatively, by the atomic number Z, mass number A = (N + Z), and atomic mass) which exists for a measurable time; decays or disintegrates spontaneously, emits radiation, and results in the formation of new nuclides.

(e) *Smoke* means the products of incomplete combustion of organic substances in the form of solid and liquid particles and gaseous products in air, usually of sufficient concentration to perceptibility obscure vision.