##### ยง 270.11 Limitation on disbursements. #####

Notwithstanding any agreement (including a power of attorney) to the contrary, the Commission must disburse a payment under this part only to the person who is eligible for the payment, i.e., the commando, his surviving spouse, children, parents, or siblings. The Commission may, in its discretion, require the person who is eligible for the payment to appear at any designated Defense Finance Accounting Service disbursement office in the United States to receive payment. The Commission may, in its discretion, coordinate with other U.S. governmental agencies to facilitate disbursement of payments to persons eligible for payments who reside outside the United States. If an eligible person makes a written request that payment be made at an alternate location or in an alternate manner, the Commission may, in its discretion, grant such request, provided that the actual disbursement of the payment (i.e., the physical delivery of the payment) is made only to the eligible person. The Commission will not disburse payment to any person other than an eligible person, notwithstanding any written request, assignment of rights, power of attorney, or other agreement. In the case of an application authorized for payment but not disbursed as a result of the foregoing, the Secretary will hold the funds in trust for the person authorized to receive payment in an interest bearing account until such time as the person complies with the conditions for disbursement set out in this part.

[63 FR 3472, Jan. 23, 1998, as amended at 63 FR 68195, Dec. 10, 1998]