##### ยง 1.341-3 Presumptions. #####

(a) Unless shown to the contrary a corporation shall be considered to be a collapsible corporation if at the time of the transactions described in ยง 1.341-1 the fair market value of the section 341 assets held by it constitutes 50 percent or more of the fair market value of its total assets and the fair market value of the section 341 assets is 120 percent or more of the adjusted basis of such assets. In determining the fair market value of the total assets, cash, obligations which are capital assets in the hands of the corporation, governmental obligations, and stock in any other corporation shall not be taken into consideration. The failure of a corporation to meet the requirements of this paragraph, shall not give rise to the presumption that the corporation was not a collapsible corporation.

(b) The following example will illustrate the application of this section:

Example.A corporation, filing its income tax returns on the accrual basis, on July 31, 1955, owned assets with the following fair market values: Cash, $175,000; note receivable held for investment, $130,000; stocks of other corporations, $545,000; rents receivable, $15,000; and a building constructed by the corporation in 1953 and held thereafter as rental property, $750,000. The adjusted basis of the building on that date was $600,000. The only debt outstanding was a $500,000 mortgage on the building. On July 31, 1955, the corporation liquidated and distributed all of its assets to its shareholders. In computing whether the fair market value of the section 341 assets (only the building) is 50 percent or more of the fair market value of the total assets, the cash, note receivable, and stocks of other corporations are not taken into account in determining the value of the total assets, with the result that the fair market value of the total assets was $765,000 ($750,000 (building) plus $15,000 rents receivable). Therefore, the value of the building is 98 percent of the total assets ($750,000 รท $765,000). The value of the building is also 125 percent of the adjusted basis of the building ($750,000 รท $600,000). In view of the above facts, there arises a presumption that the corporation is a collapsible corporation.