##### ยง 127.400 How does a concern maintain its WOSB or EDWOSB certification? #####

(a) Any concern seeking to remain a certified WOSB or EDWOSB must annually represent to SBA that it continues to meet all WOSB/EDWOSB eligibility criteria.

(1) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, unless SBA has reason to question the concern's representation of its continued eligibility, SBA will accept the representation without requiring the certified WOSB or EDWOSB to submit any supporting information or documentation.

(2) The concern's recertification must be submitted within 30 days of the anniversary date of its original certification. The date of certification is the date specified in the concern's certification letter. If the concern fails to recertify, SBA may propose the concern for decertification pursuant to ยง 127.405.

(b) Any concern seeking to remain a certified WOSB or EDWOSB must undergo a program examination and recertify its continued eligibility to SBA every three years.

(1) SBA or a third-party certifier will conduct a program examination three years after the concern's initial WOSB or EDWOSB certification (whether by SBA or a third-party certifier) or three years after the date of the concern's last program examination, whichever date is later.

(i) *Example 1.* Concern A is certified by SBA to be eligible for the WOSB program on July 20, 2021. Concern A must recertify its eligibility to SBA between June 20, 2022 and July 19, 2022. Concern A will continue to be a certified WOSB that is eligible to receive WOSB contracts (as long as it is small for the size standard corresponding to the NAICS code assigned to the contract) through July 19, 2023. Concern A must recertify its eligibility to SBA between June 20, 2023 and July 19, 2023. Concern A will continue to be a certified WOSB that is eligible to receive WOSB contracts (as long as it is small for the size standard corresponding to the NAICS code assigned to the contract) through July 19, 2024. Concern A must recertify its eligibility to SBA between June 20, 2024 and July 19, 2024. Because three years have elapsed since its application and original certification, SBA will conduct a program examination of Concern A at that time. In addition to its representation that it continues to be an eligible WOSB, Concern A must provide additional information as requested by SBA to demonstrate that it continues to meet all the eligibility requirements of the WOSB Program.

(ii) *Example 2.* Concern B is certified by a third-party certifier to be eligible for the WOSB program on September 27, 2021. Concern B must recertify its eligibility to SBA between August 28, 2022 and September 26, 2022. Concern B will continue to be a certified WOSB that is eligible to receive WOSB contracts (as long as it is small for the size standard corresponding to the NAICS code assigned to the contract) through September 26, 2023. On March 31, 2023, Concern B is awarded a WOSB set-aside contract. Subsequently, Concern B's status as an eligible WOSB is protested. On June 28, 2023, Concern B receives a positive determination from SBA confirming that it is an eligible WOSB. Concern B's new certification date is June 28, 2023. Concern B must recertify its eligibility to SBA between May 29, 2024 and June 27, 2024. Concern B will continue to be a certified WOSB that is eligible to receive WOSB contracts (as long as it is small for the size standard corresponding to the NAICS code assigned to the contract) through June 27, 2025. Concern B must recertify its eligibility to SBA between May 29, 2025 and June 27, 2025. Concern B will continue to be a certified WOSB that is eligible to receive WOSB contracts (as long as it is small for the size standard corresponding to the NAICS code assigned to the contract) until June 27, 2026. Concern B must recertify its eligibility to SBA between May 29, 2026 and June 27, 2025. Because three years have elapsed since its certification date of June 28, 2022, Concern B must seek a program examination, by SBA or a third-party certifier, between May 29, 2025 and June 27, 2026. In addition to its representation that it continues to be an eligible WOSB, Concern B must provide additional information as requested by SBA or a third-party certifier to demonstrate that it continues to meet all the eligibility requirements of the WOSB Program.

(2) The concern must either request a program examination from SBA or notify SBA that it has requested a program examination by a third-party certifier no later than 30 days prior to its certification anniversary. Failure to do so will result in the concern being decertified.

[85 FR 27663, May 11, 2020]