##### ยง 127.402 How will SBA conduct an examination? #####

Link to an amendment published at 85 FR 27664, May 11, 2020.

(a) *Notification.* No less than five (5) business days before commencing an examination, SBA will notify the concern in writing that it will conduct an examination to verify the status of the concern as an EDWOSB or WOSB. However, SBA reserves the right to conduct a site visit without prior notification to the concern.

(b) *Request for information.* SBA will request that the concern or contracting officer provide documentation and information related to the concern's EDWOSB or WOSB eligibility. These documents will include those submitted under ยง 127.300 and any other pertinent documents requested by SBA at the time of eligibility examination to verify eligibility, including but not limited to, documents submitted by a concern in connection with any WOSB or EDWOSB certification. SBA may also request copies of proposals or bids submitted in response to an EDWOSB or WOSB solicitation. In addition, EDWOSBs will be required to submit signed copies of SBA Form 413, Personal Financial Statement, the three most recent personal income tax returns (including all schedules and W-2 forms) for the women claiming economic disadvantage and their spouses, unless the individuals and their spouses are legally separated, and SBA Form 4506-T, Request for Tax Transcript Form, available to the public at *http://www.sba.gov/tools/Forms/index.html.* SBA may draw an adverse inference where a concern fails to cooperate in providing the requested information. The WOSB or EDWOSB must retain documentation demonstrating satisfaction of the eligibility requirements for six (6) years from date of self-certification.