##### § 210.12-12 Investments in securities of unaffiliated issuers. #####

[For management investment companies only]

|                 Col. A                  |                                              Col. B                                               |                     Col. C                     |
|-----------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------|
|Name of issuer and title of issue 1 2 3 4|Balance held at close of period. Number of shares - principal amount of bonds and notes<sup>7</sup>|Value of each item at close of period.5 6 8 9 10|

<sup>1</sup> Each issue shall be listed separately: Provided, however, that an amount not exceeding five percent of the total of Column C may be listed in one amount as “Miscellaneous securities,” provided the securities so listed are not restricted, have been held for not more than one year prior to the date of the related balance sheet, and have not previously been reported by name to the shareholders of the person for which the schedule is filed or to any exchange, or set forth in any registration statement, application, or annual report or otherwise made available to the public. If any securities are listed as “Miscellaneous securities,” briefly explain in a footnote what the term represents.

<sup>2</sup> Categorize the schedule by (i) the type of investment (such as common stocks, preferred stocks, convertible securities, fixed income securities, government securities, options purchased, warrants, loan participations and assignments, commercial paper, bankers' acceptances, certificates of deposit, short-term securities, repurchase agreements, other investment companies, and so forth); and (ii) the related industry, country, or geographic region of the investment. Short-term debt instruments (i.e., debt instruments whose maturities or expiration dates at the time of acquisition are one year or less) of the same issuer may be aggregated, in which case the range of interest rates and maturity dates shall be indicated. For issuers of periodic payment plan certificates and unit investment trusts, list separately: (i) Trust shares in trusts created or serviced by the depositor or sponsor of this trust; (ii) trust shares in other trusts; and (iii) securities of other investment companies. Restricted securities shall not be combined with unrestricted securities of the same issuer. Repurchase agreements shall be stated separately showing for each the name of the party or parties to the agreement, the date of the agreement, the total amount to be received upon repurchase, the repurchase date and description of securities subject to the repurchase agreements.

<sup>3</sup> For options purchased, all information required by § 210.12-13 for options contracts written should be shown. Options on underlying investments where the underlying investment would otherwise be presented in accordance with §§ 210.12-12, 12-13A, 12-13B, 12-13C, or 12-13D should include the description of the underlying investment as would be required by §§ 210.12-12, 12-13A, 12-13B, 12-13C, or 12-13D as part of the description of the option.

<sup>4</sup> Indicate the interest rate or preferential dividend rate and maturity date, as applicable, for preferred stocks, convertible securities, fixed income securities, government securities, loan participations and assignments, commercial paper, bankers' acceptances, certificates of deposit, short-term securities, repurchase agreements, or other instruments with a stated rate of income. For variable rate securities, indicate a description of the reference rate and spread and: (1) The end of period interest rate or (2) disclose the end of period reference rate for each reference rate described in the Schedule in a note to the Schedule. For securities with payment in kind income, disclose the rate paid in kind.

<sup>5</sup> The subtotals for each category of investments, subdivided both by type of investment and industry, country or geographic region, shall be shown together with their percentage value compared to net assets. (§§ 210.6-04.19 or 210.6-05.4.)

<sup>6</sup> Column C shall be totaled. The total of Column C shall agree with the correlative amounts shown on the related balance sheet.

<sup>7</sup> Indicate by an appropriate symbol each issue of securities which is non-income producing. Evidences of indebtedness and preferred shares may be deemed to be income producing if, on the respective last interest payment date or date for the declaration of dividends prior to the date of the related balance sheet, there was only a partial payment of interest or a declaration of only a partial amount of the dividends payable; in such case, however, each such issue shall be indicated by an appropriate symbol referring to a note to the effect that, on the last interest or dividend date, only partial interest was paid or partial dividends declared. If, on such respective last interest or dividend date, no interest was paid or no cash or in kind dividends declared, the issue shall not be deemed to be income producing. Common shares shall not be deemed to be income producing unless, during the last year preceding the date of the related balance sheet, there was at least one dividend paid upon such common shares.

<sup>8</sup> Indicate by an appropriate symbol each issue of restricted securities. State the following in a footnote: (a) As to each such issue: (1) Acquisition date, (2) carrying value per unit of investment at date of related balance sheet, e.g., a percentage of current market value of unrestricted securities of the same issuer, etc., and (3) the cost of such securities; (b) as to each issue acquired during the year preceding the date of the related balance sheet, the carrying value per unit of investment of unrestricted securities of the same issuer at: (1) The day the purchase price was agreed to; and (2) the day on which an enforceable right to acquire such securities was obtained; and (c) the aggregate value of all restricted securities and the percentage which the aggregate value bears to net assets.

<sup>9</sup> Indicate by an appropriate symbol each issue of securities whose value was determined using significant unobservable inputs.

<sup>10</sup> Indicate by an appropriate symbol each issue of securities held in connection with open put or call option contracts, loans for short sales, or where any portion of the issue is on loan.

[81 FR 82014, Nov. 18, 2016]