##### § 210.12-12B Summary schedule of investments in securities of unaffiliated issuers. #####

|                   Column A                    |                                              Column B                                              |                     Column C                     |                Column D                |
|-----------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------|
|Name of issuer and title of issue 1 3 4 5 6 7 8|Balance held at close of period. Number of shares - principal amount of bonds and notes<sup>10</sup>|Value of each item at close of period 2 9 11 12 13|Percentage value compared to net assets.|

<sup>1</sup> Categorize the schedule by (a) the type of investment (such as common stocks, preferred stocks, convertible securities, fixed income securities, government securities, options purchased, warrants, loan participations and assignments, commercial paper, bankers' acceptances, certificates of deposit, short-term securities, repurchase agreements, other investment companies, and so forth); and (b) the related industry, country or geographic region of the investment.

<sup>2</sup> The subtotals for each category of investments, subdivided both by type of investment and industry, country, or geographic region, shall be shown together with their percentage value compared to net assets.

<sup>3</sup> Indicate the interest rate or preferential dividend rate and maturity date, as applicable, for preferred stocks, convertible securities, fixed income securities, government securities, loan participations and assignments, commercial paper, bankers' acceptances, certificates of deposit, short-term securities, repurchase agreements, or other instruments with a stated rate of income. For variable rate securities, indicate a description of the reference rate and spread and: (1) The end of period interest rate or (2) disclose the end of period reference rate for each reference rate described in the Schedule in a note to the Schedule. For securities with payment in kind income, disclose the rate paid in kind.

<sup>4</sup> Except as provided in note 6, list separately the 50 largest issues and any other issue the value of which exceeded one percent of net asset value of the registrant as of the close of the period. For purposes of the list (including, in the case of short-term debt instruments, the first sentence of note 4), aggregate and treat as a single issue, respectively, (a) short-term debt instruments (i.e., debt instruments whose maturities or expiration dates at the time of acquisition are one year or less) of the same issuer (indicating the range of interest rates and maturity dates); and (b) fully collateralized repurchase agreements (indicate in a footnote the range of dates of the repurchase agreements, the total purchase price of the securities, the total amount to be received upon repurchase, the range of repurchase dates, and description of securities subject to the repurchase agreements). Restricted and unrestricted securities of the same issue should be aggregated for purposes of determining whether the issue is among the 50 largest issues, but should not be combined in the schedule. For purposes of determining whether the value of an issue exceeds one percent of net asset value, aggregate and treat as a single issue all securities of any one issuer, except that all fully collateralized repurchase agreements shall be aggregated and treated as a single issue. The U.S. Treasury and each agency, instrumentality, or corporation, including each government-sponsored entity, that issues U.S. government securities is a separate issuer.

<sup>5</sup> For options purchased, all information required by § 210.12-13 for options contracts written should be shown. Options on underlying investments where the underlying investment would otherwise be presented in accordance with §§ 210.12-12, 12-13A, 12-13B, 12-13C, or 12-13D should include the description of the underlying investment as would be required by §§ 210.12-12, 12-13A, 12-13B, 12-13C, or 12-13D as part of the description of the option.

<sup>6</sup> If multiple securities of an issuer aggregate to greater than one percent of net asset value, list each issue of the issuer separately (including separate listing of restricted and unrestricted securities of the same issue) except that the following may be aggregated and listed as a single issue: (a) Fixed-income securities of the same issuer which are not among the 50 largest issues and whose value does not exceed one percent of net asset value of the registrant as of the close of the period (indicating the range of interest rates and maturity dates); and (b) U.S. government securities of a single agency, instrumentality, or corporation, which are not among the 50 largest issues and whose value does not exceed one percent of net asset value of the registrant as of the close of the period (indicating the range of interest rates and maturity dates). For each category identified pursuant to note 1, group all issues that are neither separately listed nor included in a group of securities that is listed in the aggregate as a single issue in a sub-category labeled “Other securities,” and provide the information for Columns C and D.

<sup>7</sup> Any securities that would be required to be listed separately or included in a group of securities that is listed in the aggregate as a single issue may be listed in one amount as “Miscellaneous securities,” provided the securities so listed are eligible to be, and are, categorized as “Miscellaneous securities” in the registrant's Schedule of Investments in Securities of Unaffiliated Issuers required under § 210.12-12. However, if any security that is included in “Miscellaneous securities” would otherwise be required to be included in a group of securities that is listed in the aggregate as a single issue, the remaining securities of that group must nonetheless be listed as required by notes 4 and 5 even if the remaining securities alone would not otherwise be required to be listed in this manner (e.g., because the combined value of the security listed in “Miscellaneous securities” and the remaining securities of the same issuer exceeds one percent of net asset value, but the value of the remaining securities alone does not exceed one percent of net asset value).

<sup>8</sup> If any securities are listed as “Miscellaneous securities” pursuant to note 6 or “Other securities” pursuant to note 5, briefly explain in a footnote what those terms represent.

<sup>9</sup> Total Column C. The total of Column C should equal the total shown on the related balance sheet for investments in securities of unaffiliated issuers.

<sup>10</sup> Indicate by an appropriate symbol each issue of securities which is non-income producing. Evidences of indebtedness and preferred shares may be deemed to be income producing if, on the respective last interest payment date or date for the declaration of dividends prior to the date of the related balance sheet, there was only a partial payment of interest or a declaration of only a partial amount of the dividends payable; in such case, however, each such issue shall be indicated by an appropriate symbol referring to a note to the effect that, on the last interest or dividend date, only partial interest was paid or partial dividends declared. If, on such respective last interest or dividend date, no interest was paid or no cash or in kind dividends declared, the issue shall not be deemed to be income producing. Common shares shall not be deemed to be income producing unless, during the last year preceding the date of the related balance sheet, there was at least one dividend paid upon such common shares.

<sup>11</sup> Indicate by an appropriate symbol each issue of restricted securities. State the following in a footnote: (a) As to each such issue: (1) Acquisition date, (2) carrying value per unit of investment at date of related balance sheet, e.g., a percentage of current market value of unrestricted securities of the same issuer, etc., and (3) the cost of such securities; (b) as to each issue acquired during the year preceding the date of the related balance sheet, the carrying value per unit of investment of unrestricted securities of the same issuer at: (1) The day the purchase price was agreed to; and (2) the day on which an enforceable right to acquire such securities was obtained; and (c) the aggregate value of all restricted securities and the percentage which the aggregate value bears to net assets.

<sup>12</sup> Indicate by an appropriate symbol each issue of securities whose value was determined using significant unobservable inputs.

<sup>13</sup> Indicate by an appropriate symbol each issue of securities held in connection with open put or call option contracts, loans for short sales, or where any portion of the issue is on loan.

[81 FR 82015, Nov. 18, 2016]