##### § 1.430(h)(3)-2 Plan-specific substitute mortality tables used to determine present value. #####

(a) *In general.* This section sets forth rules for the use of substitute mortality tables under section 430(h)(3)(C) in determining any present value or making any computation under section 430 in accordance with § 1.430(h)(3)-1(a)(1). In order to use substitute mortality tables, a plan sponsor must obtain approval to use substitute mortality tables for the plan in accordance with the procedures set forth in paragraph (b) of this section. Paragraph (c) of this section sets forth rules for the development of substitute mortality tables, including guidelines for determining whether a plan has sufficient credible mortality experience to use substitute mortality tables. Paragraph (d) of this section sets forth special rules regarding the use of substitute mortality tables. The Commissioner may, in revenue rulings and procedures, notices or other guidance published in the Internal Revenue Bulletin (see § 601.601(d)(2)(ii)(*b*) of this chapter), provide additional guidance regarding approval and use of substitute mortality tables under section 430(h)(3)(C) and related matters.

(b) *Procedures for obtaining approval to use substitute mortality tables* - (1) *Written request to use substitute mortality tables* - (i) *General requirements.* In order to use substitute mortality tables, a plan sponsor must submit a written request to the Commissioner that demonstrates that those substitute mortality tables meet the requirements of section 430(h)(3)(C) and this section. This request must state the first plan year and the term of years (not more than 10) that the tables are requested to be used.

(ii) *Time for written request* - (A) *In general.* Except as provided in this paragraph (b)(1)(ii), substitute mortality tables cannot be used for a plan year unless the plan sponsor submits the written request described in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section at least 7 months prior to the first day of the first plan year for which the substitute mortality tables are to apply.

(B) *Special rule for requests submitted on or before October 1, 2007.* Notwithstanding the rule of paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(A) of this section, the timing of the written request described in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section does not prevent a plan from using substitute mortality tables for a plan year provided that the written request is submitted no later than October 1, 2007.

(C) *Special rule for requests submitted on or before October 1, 2008, with respect to plan years beginning during 2009.* Notwithstanding the rule of paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(A) of this section, the timing of the written request described in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section does not prevent a plan from using substitute mortality tables for a plan year that begins during 2009 provided that the written request is submitted no later than October 1, 2008.

(2) *Commissioner's review of request* - (i) *In general.* During the 180-day period that begins on the date the plan sponsor submits a request to use substitute mortality tables for a plan pursuant to this section, the Commissioner will determine whether the request to use substitute mortality tables satisfies the requirements of this section (including any published guidance issued pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section), and will either approve or deny the request. The Commissioner will deny a request if the request fails to meet the requirements of this section or if the Commissioner determines that a substitute mortality table does not sufficiently reflect the mortality experience of the applicable plan population.

(ii) *Request for additional information.* The Commissioner may request additional information with respect to the submission. Failure to provide that information on a timely basis constitutes grounds for denial of the request.

(iii) *Deemed approval.* Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2)(iv) of this section, if the Commissioner does not issue a denial within the 180-day review period, the request is deemed to have been approved.

(iv) *Extension of time permitted.* The Commissioner and a plan sponsor may, before the expiration of the 180-day review period, agree in writing to extend that period, provided that any such agreement also specifies any revisions in the plan sponsor's request, including any change in the requested term of use of the substitute mortality tables.

(c) *Development of substitute mortality tables* - (1) *Mortality experience requirements* - (i) *In general.* Substitute mortality tables must reflect the actual mortality experience of the pension plan for which the tables are to be used and that mortality experience must be credible mortality experience as described in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section. Separate mortality tables must be established for each gender under the plan, and a substitute mortality table is permitted to be established for a gender only if the plan has credible mortality experience with respect to that gender.

(ii) *Credible mortality experience.* There is credible mortality experience for a gender within a plan if and only if, over the period covered by the experience study described in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section, there are at least 1,000 deaths within that gender.

(iii) *Gender without credible mortality experience* - (A) *In general.* If, for the first year for which a plan uses substitute mortality tables, one gender has credible mortality experience but the other gender does not have credible mortality experience, the substitute mortality tables are used for the gender that does have credible mortality experience and the mortality tables under § 1.430(h)(3)-1 are used for the gender that does not have credible mortality experience. For a subsequent plan year, the plan sponsor may continue to use substitute mortality tables for the gender with credible mortality experience without using substitute mortality tables for the other gender only if the other gender continues to lack credible mortality experience for that subsequent plan year.

(B) *Demonstration of lack of credible mortality experience for a gender.* In general, in order to demonstrate that a gender within a plan does not have credible mortality experience for a plan year, the demonstration that the gender population within the plan has fewer than 1,000 deaths over a 4-year period must be made using a 4-year period that ends less than 3 years before the first day of that plan year. For example, if a plan uses substitute mortality tables based on credible mortality experience obtained over a 4-year experience study period for its male population and the standard mortality tables under § 1.430(h)(3)-1 for its female population, there must be a demonstration that the plan's female population does not have at least 1,000 deaths in a 4-year period that ends less than 3 years before the first day of that plan year. However, if the experience study period described in paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(A) of this section exceeds 4 years, then in order to demonstrate that a gender within a plan does not have credible mortality experience for a plan year, the mortality experience of that population must be analyzed over a period that is the same length as the experience study on which the substitute mortality tables are based and that ends less than 3 years before the first day of that plan year.

(iv) *Disabled individuals.* Under section 430(h)(3)(D), separate mortality tables are permitted to be used for certain disabled individuals. If such separate mortality tables are used for those disabled individuals, then those individuals are disregarded for all purposes under this section. Thus, if the mortality tables under section 430(h)(3)(D) are used for disabled individuals under a plan, mortality experience with respect to those individuals must be excluded in developing mortality rates for substitute mortality tables under this section.

(2) *Base table and base year* - (i) *In general.* Development of a substitute mortality table under this section requires creation of a base table and identification of a base year under this paragraph (c)(2). The base table and base year are then used to determine a substitute mortality table under paragraph (c)(3) of this section.

(ii) *Experience study and base table requirements* - (A) *In general.* The base table for a plan population must be developed from an experience study of the mortality experience of that plan population that generates amounts-weighted mortality rates based on experience data for the plan that is collected over an experience study period. The minimum length of the experience study period is 2 years. The maximum length of the experience study period is 5 years, but can be extended by the Commissioner in revenue rulings, notices, or other guidance published in the Internal Revenue Bulletin (see § 601.601(d)(2)(ii)(*b*) of this chapter). The last day of the final year reflected in the experience data must be less than 3 years before the first day of the first plan year for which the substitute mortality tables are to apply. For example, if July 1, 2009, is the first day of the first plan year for which the substitute mortality tables will be used, then an experience study using calendar year data must include data collected for a period that ends no earlier than December 31, 2006.

(B) *Amounts-weighted mortality rates.* The amounts-weighted mortality rate for an age is equal to the quotient determined by dividing the sum of the accrued benefits (or payable benefits, in the case of individuals in pay status) for all individuals at that age at the beginning of the year who died during the year, by the sum of the accrued benefits (or payable benefits, in the case of individuals in pay status) for all individuals at that age at the beginning of the year, with appropriate adjustments for individuals who left the relevant plan population during the year for reasons other than death. Because amounts-weighted mortality rates for a plan cannot be determined without accrued (or payable) benefits, the mortality experience study used to develop a base table cannot include periods before the plan was established.

(C) *Grouping of ages.* Amounts-weighted mortality rates may be derived from amounts-weighted mortality rates for age groups. The Commissioner, in revenue rulings, notices, or other guidance published in the Internal Revenue Bulletin (see § 601.601(d)(2)(ii)(*b*) of this chapter), may specify grouping rules (for example, 5-year age groups, except for extreme ages such as ages above 100 or below 20) and methods for developing amounts-weighted mortality rates for individual ages from amounts-weighted mortality rates initially determined for each age group.

(D) *Base table construction.* The base tables must be constructed from the amounts-weighted mortality rates determined in paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(B) of this section. The base tables must be constructed either directly through graduation of the amounts-weighted mortality rates or indirectly by applying a level percentage to the applicable mortality table set forth in § 1.430(h)(3)-1, provided that the adjusted table sufficiently reflects the mortality experience of the plan. The Commissioner also may permit the use of other recognized mortality tables in the construction of base tables, applying a similar mortality experience standard.

(iii) *Base year requirements.* The base year is the calendar year that contains the day before the midpoint of the experience study period. If the base table is constructed by applying a level percentage to a table set forth in § 1.430(h)(3)-1, then the percentage must be applied to the table under § 1.430(h)(3)-1 after it has been projected to the base year using Projection Scale AA, as set forth in § 1.430(h)(3)-1(d). Thus, for example, if the base year of the mortality experience study is 2005, the applicable base (year 2000) mortality rates must be projected 5 years prior to determining the level percentage to be applied to the applicable projected base (year 2000) mortality rates.

(iv) *Change in number of individuals covered by table.* Experience data cannot be used to develop a base table if the number of individuals in the population covered by the table (for example, the male annuitant population) as of the last day of the plan year before the year the request to use substitute mortality tables is made, compared to the average number of individuals in that population over the years covered by the experience study on which the substitute mortality tables are based, reflects a difference of 20 percent or more, unless it is demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Commissioner that the experience data is accurately predictive of future mortality of that plan population (taking into account the effect of the change in individuals) after appropriate adjustments to the data are made (for example, excluding data from individuals with respect to a spun-off portion of the plan). For this purpose, a reasonable estimate of the number of individuals in the population covered by the table may be used, such as the estimated number of participants and beneficiaries used for purposes of the PBGC Form 1-ES.

(3) *Determination of substitute mortality tables* - (i) *In general.* A plan's substitute mortality tables must be generational mortality tables. Substitute mortality tables are determined using the base mortality tables developed pursuant to paragraph (c)(2) of this section and the projection factors provided in Projection Scale AA, as set forth in § 1.430(h)(3)-1(d). Under the generational mortality tables, the probability of an individual's death at a particular age is determined as the individual's base mortality rate (that is, the applicable mortality rate from the base mortality table for the age for which the probability of death is being determined) multiplied by the mortality improvement factor. The mortality improvement factor is equal to (1 − projection factor for that age)n, where n is equal to the projection period (the number of years between the base year for the base mortality table and the calendar year in which the individual attains the age for which the probability of death is being determined).

(ii) *Example of calculation.* As an example of the use of generational mortality tables under paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section, if approved substitute mortality tables are based on data collected during 2005 and 2006, the base year would be 2005 because 2005 would be the year that contains the day before the midpoint of the experience study period. If the tables show a base mortality rate of .006000 for male annuitants at age 54, the probability of death at age 54 for a male annuitant born in 1974 would be determined using the base mortality rate of .006000, the age-54 projection factor of .020 (pursuant to the Scale AA Projection Factors set forth in § 1.430(h)(3)-1(d)) and a projection period of 23 years. The projection period is the number of years between the base year of 2005 and the calendar year in which the individual reaches age 54. Accordingly, the mortality improvement factor would be .628347 and the probability of death at age 54 would be .003770.

(4) *Separate tables for specified populations* - (i) *In general.* Except as provided in this paragraph (c)(4), separate substitute mortality tables are permitted to be used for separate populations within a gender under a plan only if -

(A) All individuals of that gender in the plan are divided into separate populations;

(B) Each separate population has credible mortality experience as provided in paragraph (c)(4)(iii) of this section; and

(C) The separate substitute mortality table for each separate population is developed using mortality experience data for that population.

(ii) *Annuitant and nonannuitant separate populations.* Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(4)(i)(B) of this section, substitute mortality tables for separate populations of annuitants and nonannuitants within a gender may be used even if only one of those separate populations has credible mortality experience. Similarly, if separate populations that satisfy paragraph (c)(4)(i)(B) of this section are established, then any of those populations may be further subdivided into separate annuitant and nonannuitant subpopulations, provided that at least one of the two resulting subpopulations has credible mortality experience. The standard mortality tables under § 1.430(h)(3)-1 are used for a resulting subpopulation that does not have credible mortality experience. For example, in the case of a plan that has credible mortality experience for both its male hourly and salaried individuals, if the male salaried annuitant population has credible mortality experience, the plan may use substitute mortality tables with respect to that population even if the standard mortality tables under § 1.430(h)(3)-1 are used for the male salaried nonannuitant population (because that nonannuitant population does not have credible mortality experience).

(iii) *Credible mortality experience for separate populations.* In determining whether a separate population within a gender has credible mortality experience, the requirements of paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section must be satisfied but, in applying that paragraph (c)(1)(ii), the separate population should be substituted for the particular gender. In demonstrating that an annuitant or nonannuitant population within a gender or within a separate population does not have credible mortality experience, the requirements of paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section must be satisfied but, in applying that paragraph, the annuitant (or nonannuitant) population should be substituted for the particular gender.

(d) *Special rules* - (1) *All plans in controlled group must use substitute mortality tables* - (i) *In general.* Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (d)(1), substitute mortality tables are permitted to be used for a plan for a plan year only if, for that plan year (or any portion of that plan year), substitute mortality tables are also approved and used for each other pension plan subject to the requirements of section 430 that is maintained by the sponsor and by each member of the plan sponsor's controlled group. For purposes of this section, the term *controlled group* means any group treated as a single employer under paragraph (b), (c), (m), or (o) of section 414.

(ii) *Plans without credible experience* - (A) *In general.* For the first year for which a plan uses substitute mortality tables, the use of substitute mortality tables for the plan is not prohibited merely because another plan described in paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section cannot use substitute mortality tables because neither the males nor the females under that other plan have credible mortality experience for a plan year. For each subsequent plan year, the plan sponsor may continue to use substitute mortality tables for the plan with credible mortality experience without using substitute mortality tables for the other plan only if neither the males nor the females under that other plan have credible mortality experience for that subsequent plan year.

(B) *Analysis of mortality experience.* For each plan year in which a plan uses substitute mortality tables, in order to demonstrate that the male and female populations of another plan maintained by the plan sponsor (or by a member of the plan sponsor's controlled group) do not have credible mortality experience, the requirements of paragraph (c)(1)(iii)(B) of this section must be satisfied for that plan year. Thus, a plan is not prohibited from using substitute mortality tables for a plan year merely because another plan in the controlled group of the plan sponsor does not have at least 1,000 male deaths and does not have at least 1,000 female deaths in a 4-year period (or a period that is the length of the experience study period if the experience study period under paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(A) of this section is longer than 4 years) that ends less than 3 years before the first day of that plan year.

(iii) *Newly affiliated plans not using substitute mortality tables* - (A) *In general.* The use of substitute mortality tables for a plan is not prohibited merely because a newly affiliated plan does not use substitute mortality tables, but only through the last day of the plan year of the plan using substitute mortality tables that contains the last day of the period described in section 410(b)(6)(C)(ii) for either the newly affiliated plan or the plan using substitute mortality tables, whichever is later. Thus, for the following plan year, the mortality tables prescribed under § 1.430(h)(3)-1 apply with respect to the plan (and all other plans within the plan sponsor's controlled group, including the newly affiliated plan) unless -

(*1*) Approval to use substitute mortality tables has been obtained with respect to the newly affiliated plan pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section; or

(*2*) The newly affiliated plan cannot use substitute mortality tables because neither the males nor the females under the plan have credible mortality experience as described in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section (as determined in accordance with the rules of paragraph (d)(1)(iv) of this section).

(B) *Definition of newly affiliated plan.* For purposes of this section, a plan is treated as a newly affiliated plan if it becomes maintained by the plan sponsor (or by a member of the plan sponsor's controlled group) in connection with a merger, acquisition, or similar transaction described in § 1.410(b)-2(f). A plan also is treated as a newly affiliated plan for purposes of this section if the plan is established in connection with a transfer of assets and liabilities from another employer's plan in connection with a merger, acquisition, or similar transaction described in § 1.410(b)-2(f).

(iv) *Demonstration of credible mortality experience for newly affiliated plan* - (A) *In general.* In general, in the case of a newly affiliated plan described in paragraph (d)(1)(iii) of this section, the demonstration of whether credible mortality experience exists for the plan for a plan year may be made by either including or excluding mortality experience data for the period prior to the date the plan becomes maintained by a member of the new plan sponsor's controlled group. If a plan sponsor excludes mortality experience data for the period prior to the date the plan becomes maintained within the new plan sponsor's controlled group, the exclusion must apply for all populations within the plan.

(B) *Demonstration of credible mortality experience.* Regardless of whether mortality experience data for the period prior to the date a newly affiliated plan becomes maintained within the new plan sponsor's controlled group is included or excluded for a plan year, the provisions of this section, including the demonstration of credible mortality experience in accordance with paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section, must be satisfied before substitute mortality tables may be used with respect to the plan. Thus, for example, the plan must meet the rule in paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(A) of this section that the base table be based on mortality experience data for the plan over a 2-year or longer consecutive period that ends less than 3 years before the first day of the plan year for which substitute mortality tables will be used.

(C) *Demonstration of lack of credible mortality experience.* In the case of a newly affiliated plan described in paragraph (d)(1)(iii) of this section, in order to demonstrate a lack of credible mortality experience with respect to a gender for a plan year, the rules of paragraph (c)(1)(iii)(B) of this section generally will apply. However, a special rule applies if the plan's mortality experience demonstration for a plan year is made by excluding mortality experience for the period prior to the date the plan becomes maintained by a member of the new plan sponsor's controlled group. In such a case, an employer is permitted to demonstrate a plan's lack of credible mortality experience using an experience study period of less than four years, provided that the experience study period begins with the date the plan becomes maintained within the sponsor's controlled group and ends not more than one year and one day before the first day of the plan year with respect to which the lack of credible mortality experience demonstration is made.

(D) *Example.* The following example illustrates the application of this paragraph (d)(1):

Example.(i) Employer A is a corporation and maintains Plan M, which has a calendar year plan year and has obtained approval to use substitute mortality tables for 10 years beginning with the plan year that begins on January 1, 2009. Employer B is a corporation and maintains Plan N, which does not use substitute mortality tables and has a calendar year plan year. On July 1, 2010, Employer A acquires 100% of the stock of Employer B.

(ii) Pursuant to paragraph (d)(1)(iii) of this section, the maintenance of Plan N within the controlled group that maintains Plan M does not impair the use of substitute mortality tables by Plan M through the end of the plan year that ends on December 31, 2011.

(iii) Pursuant to paragraph (d)(1)(iii) of this section, beginning with the plan year that begins on January 1, 2012, Plan M continues to use substitute mortality tables only if either Plan N obtains approval to use substitute mortality tables or Employer A can demonstrate that Plan N does not have credible mortality experience. Pursuant to paragraph (d)(1)(iv)(C) of this section, Employer A is permitted to either exclude mortality experience date for the period of time before July 1, 2010 (the date Plan N became maintained with Employer A's controlled group), or include that mortality experience data for purposes of demonstrating that Plan N does not have credible mortality experience. Thus, if there is an experience study that shows that the male and female populations of Plan N each do not have 1,000 deaths during the period from July 1, 2010, through December 31, 2010, then the maintenance of Plan N within the Employer A's controlled group does not impair Plan M's use of substitute mortality tables for Plan M's 2012 plan year.

(iv) For Plan M's 2013 plan year, pursuant to paragraph (d)(1)(iv)(C) of this section, the maintenance of Plan N within Employer A's controlled group does not impair Plan M's use of substitute mortality tables if there is an experience study that shows that the male and female populations of Plan N each do not have 1,000 deaths during the period from July 1, 2010, through December 31, 2011.

(2) *Duration of use of tables.* Except as provided in paragraph (d)(4) of this section, substitute mortality tables are used with respect to a plan for the term of consecutive plan years specified in the plan sponsor's written request to use such tables under paragraph (b)(1) of this section and approved by the Commissioner, or such shorter period prescribed by the Commissioner in the approval to use substitute mortality tables. Following the end of such term of use, or following any early termination of use described in paragraph (d)(4) of this section, the mortality tables specified in § 1.430(h)(3)-1 apply with respect to the plan unless approval under paragraph (b)(1) of this section has been received by the plan sponsor to use substitute mortality tables for a further term.

(3) *Aggregation* - (i) *Permissive aggregation of plans.* In order for a plan sponsor to use a set of substitute mortality tables with respect to two or more plans, the rules of this section are applied by treating those plans as a single plan. In such a case, the substitute mortality tables must be used for the aggregated plans and must be based on data collected with respect to those aggregated plans.

(ii) *Required aggregation of plans.* In general, plans are not required to be aggregated for purposes of applying the rules of this section. However, for purposes of this section, a plan is required to be aggregated with any plan that was previously spun off from that plan for purposes of this section if the Commissioner determines that one purpose of the spinoff is to avoid the use of substitute mortality tables for any of the plans that were involved in the spinoff.

(4) *Early termination of use of tables* - (i) *General rule.* A plan's substitute mortality tables cannot be used as of the earliest of -

(A) The plan year in which the plan fails to satisfy the requirements of paragraph (c)(1) of this section (regarding credible mortality experience requirements and demonstrations);

(B) The plan year in which the plan fails to satisfy the requirements of paragraph (d)(1) of this section (regarding use of substitute mortality tables by controlled group members);

(C) The second plan year following the plan year in which there is a significant change in individuals covered by the plan as described in paragraph (d)(4)(ii) of this section;

(D) The plan year following the plan year in which a substitute mortality table used for a plan population is no longer accurately predictive of future mortality of that population, as determined by the Commissioner or as certified by the plan's actuary to the satisfaction of the Commissioner; or

(E) The date specified in guidance published in the Internal Revenue Bulletin (see § 601.601(d)(2)(ii)(*b*) of this chapter) pursuant to a replacement of mortality tables specified under section 430(h)(3)(A) and § 1.430(h)(3)-1 (other than annual updates to the static mortality tables issued pursuant to § 1.430(h)(3)-1(a)(3)).

(ii) *Significant change in coverage* - (A) *Change in coverage from time of experience study.* For purposes of applying the rules of paragraph (d)(4)(i)(C) of this section, a significant change in the individuals covered by a substitute mortality table occurs if there is an increase or decrease in the number of individuals of at least 20 percent compared to the average number of individuals in that population over the years covered by the experience study on which the substitute mortality tables are based. However, a change in coverage is not treated as significant if the plan's actuary certifies in writing to the satisfaction of the Commissioner that the substitute mortality tables used for the plan population continue to be accurately predictive of future mortality of that population (taking into account the effect of the change in the population).

(B) *Change in coverage from time of certification.* For purposes of applying the rules of paragraph (d)(4)(i)(C) of this section, a significant change in the individuals covered by a substitute mortality table occurs if there is an increase or decrease in the number of individuals covered by a substitute mortality table of at least 20 percent compared to the number of individuals in a plan year for which a certification described in paragraph (d)(4)(ii)(A) of this section was made on account of a prior change in coverage. However, a change in coverage is not treated as significant if the plan's actuary certifies in writing to the satisfaction of the Commissioner that the substitute mortality tables used by the plan with respect to the covered population continue to be accurately predictive of future mortality of that population (taking into account the effect of the change in the plan population).

(e) *Effective/Applicability date.* This section applies for plan years beginning on or after January 1, 2009.

[T.D. 9419, 73 FR 44644, July 31, 2008]