##### § 1.430(j)-1 Payment of minimum required contributions. #####

(a) *In general*—(1) *Overview.* This section provides rules related to the payment of minimum required contributions, including the payment of required installments. Section 430(j) and this section apply to single-employer defined benefit plans (including multiple employer plans as defined in section 413(c)) but do not apply to multiemployer plans (as defined in section 414(f)). Paragraph (b) of this section describes the general timing requirement for minimum required contributions. Paragraph (c) of this section describes the accelerated required installment schedule for plans with a funding shortfall in the preceding plan year. Paragraph (d) of this section provides rules regarding liquidity requirements. Paragraph (e) of this section provides definitions. Paragraph (f) of this section provides examples that illustrate the rules of this section. Paragraph (g) of this section sets forth effective/applicability dates and transition rules.

(2) *Special rules for multiple employer plans*—(i) *In general.* In the case of a multiple employer plan to which section 413(c)(4)(A) applies, the rules of section 430 and this section are applied separately for each employer under the plan, as if each employer maintained a separate plan. Thus, for example, required installments are determined separately for each employer under such a multiple employer plan. In the case of a multiple employer plan to which section 413(c)(4)(A) does not apply (that is, a plan described in section 413(c)(4)(B) that has not made the election for section 413(c)(4)(A) to apply), the rules of section 430 and this section are applied as if all participants in the plan were employed by a single employer.

(ii) *CSEC plans.* A CSEC plan (that is, a plan that fits within the definition of a CSEC plan in section 414(y) for plan years beginning on or after January 1, 2014 and for which the election under section 414(y)(3)(A) has not been made) is not subject to the rules of section 430. See section 433 for the minimum funding rules that apply to CSEC plans.

(3) *Applicability of section 430(j) to plans of commercial passenger airlines*—(i) *In general.* Except as otherwise provided in this section, the rules of section 430(j) and this section apply to a plan for which an election described in section 402 of the Pension Protection Act of 2006, Public Law 109-280 (120 Stat. 780 (2006)), as amended (PPA '06), has been made in the same manner as those rules apply to any other plan subject to section 430.

(ii) *Special rules for plans for which election was made pursuant to section 402(a)(1) of PPA '06.* For purposes of applying the rules of section 430(j) and this section to a plan with respect to which the election under section 402(a)(1) of PPA '06 has been made, the effective interest rate for the plan is deemed to be 8.85 percent during the period for which the election applies. In addition, see paragraph (e)(4)(ii) of this section for a special determination of the funding shortfall for a plan for which the election in section 402(a)(1) of PPA '06 has been made.

(b) *General timing requirement for minimum required contributions*—(1) *Earliest date for contributions.* A payment made before the first day of the plan year cannot be applied toward the minimum required contribution under section 430 for that plan year.

(2) *Deadline for contributions.* The deadline for any payment of any minimum required contribution for a plan year is 81/2 months after the close of the plan year. See section 4971 and the regulations thereunder regarding an excise tax that applies with respect to minimum required contributions not paid by this deadline. For additional rules that may apply in the case of a failure to pay minimum required contributions by this deadline, see also section 430(k) of the Code and sections 101(d) and 4043 of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (ERISA).

(3) *Allocation of contribution to a plan year*—(i) *Plans with unpaid minimum required contributions that have not been corrected.* If a plan has unpaid minimum required contributions within the meaning of § 54.4971(c)-1(c) of this chapter that have not yet been corrected within the meaning of § 54.4971(c)-1(d)(2) of this chapter at the time a contribution is made, then the contribution is treated as a late contribution for the earliest plan year for which there is an unpaid minimum required contribution (to the extent necessary to correct that unpaid minimum required contribution). To the extent the contribution exceeds the amount necessary to correct the earlier unpaid minimum required contribution, the excess is treated as a late contribution for the next earliest plan year for which there is an unpaid minimum required contribution (to the extent necessary to correct that next earliest unpaid minimum required contribution). The allocation of the contribution under the preceding sentence is repeated until all unpaid minimum required contributions have been corrected, or until the entire contribution is allocated, whichever comes first.

(ii) *Plans without unpaid minimum required contributions.* If a contribution is made during the current plan year but before the deadline under paragraph (b)(2) of this section for contributions for a prior plan year, and the plan has no unpaid minimum required contribution for any plan year at the time the contribution is made, then the contribution may be designated as a contribution for either that prior plan year or the current plan year. Similarly, if a contribution made during the current plan year but before the deadline under paragraph (b)(2) of this section for contributions for a prior plan year is more than enough to correct a plan's unpaid minimum required contributions for all plan years, the portion of a contribution that was not used to correct unpaid minimum required contributions may be designated as a contribution for either that prior plan year or the current plan year.

(iii) *Method of allocating contributions*—(A) *Reporting for contributions to correct unpaid minimum required contributions.* The allocation of a contribution under the rules of paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section to correct unpaid minimum required contributions is automatic and must be shown on the actuarial report (Schedule SB, “Single-Employer Defined Benefit Plan Actuarial Information” of Form 5500, “Annual Return/Report of Employee Benefit Plan”) for the earliest plan year with respect to which, as of the date of the contribution, the deadline for making contributions under paragraph (b)(2) of this section has not passed. See § 1.430(g)-1(d)(1) for the rules for determining the plan year for which these contributions are taken into account in determining the value of plan assets.

(B) *Designation of plan year if no unpaid minimum contribution.* In the case of a contribution described in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section, the designation is established by the completion (and filing, if required) of the actuarial report (Schedule SB, “Single-Employer Defined Benefit Plan Actuarial Information” of Form 5500, “Annual Return/Report of Employee Benefit Plan”) for the plan year for which the contribution is designated and cannot be changed after the actuarial report that reflects the contribution is completed (and filed, if required) except as provided in guidance published in the Internal Revenue Bulletin. Thus, a contribution that has been designated for a plan year on an actuarial report pursuant to this paragraph (b)(3)(iii)(B) generally cannot be redesignated as a contribution for either an earlier or later plan year.

(4) *Adjustment for interest*—(i) *In general.* Except as provided in this paragraph (b)(4), any payment toward the minimum required contribution under section 430 for a plan year that is paid on a date other than the valuation date for that plan year is adjusted for interest for the period between the valuation date and the payment date, at the plan's effective interest rate for that plan year determined pursuant to § 1.430(h)(2)-1(f)(1). The direction of the adjustment depends on whether the contribution is paid before or after the valuation date for the plan year. If the contribution is paid after the valuation date for the plan year, the contribution is discounted to the valuation date using the plan's effective interest rate. By contrast, if the contribution is paid before the valuation date for the plan year (which could only occur in the case of a small plan described in section 430(g)(2)(B)), the contribution is increased for interest using the plan's effective interest rate.

(ii) *Interest adjustment for late quarterly installments.* In the case of a plan that must make required installments under the rules of paragraph (c) of this section, to the extent a contribution for a plan year constitutes a late required installment, the adjustment for interest for the period between the valuation date and the payment date is made in two steps. In the first step, the portion of the contribution that constitutes a late required installment is adjusted for interest from the date of the contribution to the due date for the installment by discounting it using the plan's effective interest rate for that plan year determined pursuant to § 1.430(h)(2)-1(f)(1) plus 5 percentage points. In the second step, this discounted amount is treated as if it were contributed on the installment due date for purposes of the interest adjustment under paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section. However, a contribution made toward the unpaid liquidity amount (as defined in paragraph (d)(3) of this section) that is made before the close of the quarter in which it is due is adjusted under paragraph (b)(4)(iii) of this section.

(iii) *Interest adjustment for unpaid liquidity amounts.* In the case of a plan that is subject to the liquidity requirement rules of paragraph (d) of this section, to the extent a contribution made during a quarter constitutes a payment of the unpaid liquidity amount for that quarter as described in paragraph (d)(3) of this section, the adjustment for interest for the period between the valuation date and the payment date is made in two steps. In the first step, the portion of the contribution that constitutes a payment of the unpaid liquidity amount is increased for interest from the date of the contribution to the last day of the quarter, at the plan's effective interest rate for that plan year determined pursuant to § 1.430(h)(2)-1(f)(1). In the second step, this adjusted amount is treated as if it were contributed on the last day of that quarter for purposes of the interest adjustment for late required installments under the rules of paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section. See paragraph (d)(3)(iv)(B) of this section for an increase to the minimum required contribution that gives effect to this interest adjustment for unpaid liquidity amounts in the event a portion of the required installment is no longer treated as unpaid after the close of the quarter under paragraph (d)(3)(iv)(A) of this section.

(c) *Accelerated quarterly installments required for underfunded plans*—(1) *Plans subject to quarterly installment requirement.* The plan sponsor of a plan that has a funding shortfall for the preceding plan year is required to pay the installments described in paragraph (c)(5) of this section by the due dates described in paragraph (c)(6) of this section. See paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section, section 430(k) of the Internal Revenue Code (Code) (regarding the imposition of a lien), and sections 101(d) and 4043 of ERISA (regarding notice to participants and beneficiaries and to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation) for examples of consequences that generally apply following a failure to make required installments.

(2) *Satisfaction of quarterly installment requirement.* A plan sponsor may satisfy the requirement to pay an installment under paragraph (c)(1) of this section by one or a combination of the following—

(i) Making a contribution for the plan year which is allocated among the required installments under the rules of paragraph (c)(3) of this section; and

(ii) Making an election to use some or all of the plan's prefunding balance or funding standard carryover balance in accordance with the rules of paragraph (c)(4) of this section.

(3) *Satisfaction of quarterly installment requirement with contributions*—(i) *Contributions allocated to earliest quarterly installments.* For purposes of this section, a contribution for a plan year is allocated among the required installments for the plan year under the rules of paragraph (c)(3)(ii) or (iii) of this section, whichever is applicable. Which rule applies depends on whether, at the time the contribution is made, the plan sponsor has unpaid required installments (that is, the plan sponsor has not fully satisfied all required installments for which the due date has passed, taking into account the special rule with respect to the unpaid liquidity amounts in paragraph (d)(3)(iv)(A) of this section).

(ii) *Early contributions increased with interest.* If a plan has no unpaid required installments for a plan year at the time a contribution for the plan year is made, then the contribution is allocated to the required installments (if any) for the plan year due on or after the date of the contribution under the rules of this paragraph (c)(3)(ii). The contribution is allocated in the order in which those installments occur, and the amount allocated to each required installment is limited to the amount necessary to satisfy the required installment (including satisfaction of the liquidity requirement under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, taking into account the special rule with respect to the unpaid liquidity amounts in paragraph (d)(3)(iv)(A) of this section) taking into account any interest as described in the next sentence. If the contribution is made before the due date of the installment to which it is allocated, then the amount credited toward the installment includes interest on the contribution from the date of the contribution to the due date of the required installment (except as provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section). This interest adjustment is made using an interest rate equal to the plan's effective interest rate under § 1.430(h)(2)-1(f)(1) for the plan year.

(iii) *Allocation of contributions to late required installments without interest*—(A) *In general.* If a plan has any unpaid required installments for a plan year at the time a contribution for the plan year is made, then the contribution is allocated to those unpaid required installments under the rules of this paragraph (c)(3)(iii). The contribution is allocated in the order in which those unpaid required installments occur, and the amount allocated to each required installment is limited to the amount that satisfies the required installment without any adjustment for interest. If a contribution is allocated to an unpaid required installment under this paragraph (c)(3)(iii), then that contribution is adjusted for interest under the rules of paragraph (b)(4) of this section (regarding interest adjustments for late quarterly installments) for purposes of determining the extent to which that contribution satisfies the minimum required contribution for the plan year.

(B) *Bifurcation of contributions that exceed unpaid required installments.* Any amount of a contribution described in paragraph (c)(3)(iii)(A) of this section that is not used to satisfy the unpaid required installments for the plan year is allocated toward any remaining required installments for the plan year under the rules of paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section.

(4) *Satisfaction of quarterly installment requirements through use of funding balances.* A plan sponsor may satisfy the requirement to pay an installment under paragraph (c)(1) of this section by making an election to use some or all of the plan's prefunding balance or funding standard carryover balance under section 430(f). Such an election is subject to the rules of § 1.430(f)-1 and cannot exceed the available amount of the plan's prefunding balance and funding standard carryover balance determined under § 1.430(f)-1(d)(1)(ii) as of the date of the election. The amount elected is allocated toward satisfaction of the required installments in the same manner as a contribution made on the date of the election. Thus, the amount of an election to use the plan's prefunding balance or funding standard carryover balance is increased with interest under the rules of paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section or is credited against the earliest unpaid required installment under the rules of paragraph (c)(3)(iii) of this section. See § 1.430(f)-1(f)(1)(iii) for rules permitting the use of a standing election for purposes of satisfying required installments through use of funding balances. See § 1.430(f)-1(d)(1)(i)(B) for rules relating to late elections to use the funding standard carryover balance or prefunding balance to satisfy the required installment rules.

(5) *Amount of required installment*—(i) *In general.* For purposes of this section, the amount of any required installment due for a plan year is equal to 25 percent of the required annual payment for the plan year as described in paragraph (c)(5)(ii) of this section.

(ii) *Required annual payment.* The required annual payment for a plan year is equal to the lesser of—

(A) 90 percent of the minimum required contribution under section 430 for the plan year; or

(B) 100 percent of the minimum required contribution under section 430 (determined without regard to any funding waiver under section 412) for the preceding plan year.

(iii) *Treatment of funding balances.* For purposes of paragraph (c)(5)(ii) of this section, the minimum required contribution for a plan year is determined without regard to the use of the prefunding balance or funding standard carryover balance for the current year or the prior year. However, see paragraph (c)(4) of this section regarding a plan sponsor's election to use the plan's prefunding balance or funding standard carryover balance for the current year in order to satisfy the requirement to pay an installment.

(iv) *Disregard of certain amounts.* For purposes of paragraph (c)(5)(ii) of this section, the minimum required contribution for a plan year is determined without regard to the installment acceleration amount for the plan year determined under section 430(c)(7) or any increase to the minimum required contribution under paragraph (d)(3)(iv)(B) of this section (relating to an unpaid liquidity amount).

(6) *Due dates for installments.* For purposes of this section, there is a required installment for each quarter of the plan year, and the due dates for the required installments with respect to a full plan year are set forth in the following table:

|        Installment        |                Due date                |
|---------------------------|----------------------------------------|
|First required installment |      15th day of 4th plan month.       |
|Second required installment|      15th day of 7th plan month.       |
|Third required installment |      15th day of 10th plan month.      |
|Fourth required installment|15th day after the end of the plan year.|

(7) *Special rules for short plan years*—(i) *In general.* In the case of a short plan year, the rules of this paragraph (c) are modified as provided in this paragraph (c)(7).

(ii) *Current plan year is short plan year*—(A) *Amount of required annual payment.* In determining the required annual payment pursuant to paragraph (c)(5)(ii) of this section for a short plan year, the amount otherwise determined under paragraph (c)(5)(ii)(B) of this section (based on the prior year's minimum required contribution) is multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the duration of the short plan year and the denominator of which is 1 year. This rule applies to the year that contains the plan's termination date if that date is before the date that would otherwise be the end of the plan year (because the plan is treated as having a short plan year for purposes of section 430 pursuant to § 1.430(a)-1(b)(5)).

(B) *Number and due dates of installments.* If the plan has a short plan year, then an installment is due 15 days after the end of that short plan year. In addition, an installment is required for each due date determined under paragraph (c)(6) of this section that falls within the short plan year. Thus, for example, if the short plan year ends before the 15th day of the 4th plan month of the plan year, there will be only one installment for that short plan year, and that installment will be due on the 15th day after the end of the short plan year.

(C) *Amount of installments.* The amount of each installment required to be paid for the short plan year is equal to the required annual payment determined pursuant to paragraph (c)(5)(ii) of this section (as modified by paragraph (c)(7)(ii)(A) of this section) divided by the number of installments determined pursuant to paragraph (c)(7)(ii)(B) of this section.

(D) *No increase in prior required installments.* If a plan is amended to have a short plan year (including as a result of plan termination) and the required installments determined under paragraph (c)(7)(ii)(C) of this section are greater than the required installments determined without regard to the amendment, then—

(*1*) The required installments for which the due dates occur before the end of the short plan year are determined without regard to the amendment, and

(*2*) The required installment due on the 15th day after the end of the short plan year is increased to the extent necessary so that the total of the required installments for the year is the required annual payment determined under paragraph (c)(5)(ii) of this section, determined taking into account the rules of paragraph (c)(7)(ii)(A) of this section.

(iii) *Prior plan year is short plan year.* If the prior plan year is a short plan year, the amount otherwise determined under paragraph (c)(5)(ii)(B) of this section (based on the prior year's minimum required contribution) is multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is 1 year and the denominator of which is the duration of the short plan year.

(d) *Liquidity requirement in connection with quarterly installments*—(1) *In general*—(i) *Additional requirement with respect to quarterly installments.* Except as provided in this paragraph (d)(1), if a plan sponsor is required to pay the installments described in paragraph (c) of this section, then the plan sponsor is treated as failing to pay the full amount of the required installment for a quarter to the extent that the value of the liquid assets paid in the required installment after the end of that quarter and on or before the due date for the installment is less than the liquidity shortfall for that quarter. If the amount of any required installment is increased by reason of this paragraph (d)(1)(i), in no event shall this increase exceed the amount which, when added to the current required installment (determined without regard to the increase) and prior required installments for the plan year (not including any portion of a required installment that is no longer treated as unpaid under paragraph (d)(3)(iv)(A) of this section), is necessary to increase the funding target attainment percentage for the plan year to 100 percent (taking into account the expected increase in the funding target due to benefits accruing or earned during the plan year).

(ii) *Small plan exception.* The liquidity requirement of this paragraph (d) does not apply to a plan for any plan year for which the plan is a small plan described in § 1.430(g)-1(b)(2).

(2) *Satisfaction of liquidity requirement.* The additional requirement with respect to a required installment under paragraph (d)(1) of this section can be satisfied only with an actual contribution of liquid assets that, after application of paragraph (c)(3) of this section, is allocated to satisfy the required installment for the quarter. The liquidity requirement cannot be satisfied through the use of funding balances, and satisfaction of this requirement is determined without taking into account the increase for interest for early contributions set forth in paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section. Any contribution of liquid assets that is allocated to satisfy the required installment for a quarter applies for purposes of determining whether the requirements of paragraph (d)(1) of this section are satisfied, even if the contribution is less than the total amount needed to satisfy the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section for the quarter (taking into account any increase in the required installment under this paragraph (d)).

(3) *Failure to satisfy liquidity requirement*—(i) *Treatment as failure to satisfy quarterly installment.* If an employer fails to satisfy the additional requirement with respect to a required installment for a quarter under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the portion of that required installment that is treated as not paid by reason of paragraph (d)(1) of this section (the unpaid liquidity amount for that quarter) is treated as an underpayment of the required installment. See paragraph (c)(1) of this section for examples of consequences of underpayment of a required installment.

(ii) *Late satisfaction of liquidity requirement.* The rules of paragraph (d)(2) of this section apply to determine whether a contribution made after the deadline for a required installment satisfies the liquidity requirement of paragraph (d)(1) of this section. However, pursuant to section 430(j)(4)(C), the unpaid liquidity amount is treated as unpaid until the end of the quarter in which the due date for that installment occurs, even if liquid assets in that amount are contributed during that quarter (but after the due date for the installment). See paragraph (b)(4)(iii) of this section for the application of this rule for purposes of applying the additional interest for late required installments.

(iii) *Additional consequences of failure to pay liquidity shortfall.* See section 206(e) of ERISA and section 401(a)(32) of the Code (regarding suspension of accelerated distributions for a plan with an unpaid liquidity amount). See also section 4971(f) regarding an excise tax imposed in the event of a failure to pay a liquidity shortfall.

(iv) *Treatment in subsequent quarter*—(A) *Adjustment to required installment.* After the close of the quarter in which the due date of a required installment occurs, any portion of the installment that was treated as unpaid solely by reason of paragraph (d)(1) of this section, and that was not satisfied with a contribution of liquid assets during that quarter, is no longer treated as unpaid (but any portion of the installment that would be treated as unpaid without regard to paragraph (d)(1) of this section must be satisfied in accordance with the rules of paragraph (c) of this section).

(B) *Increase to minimum required contribution for additional interest.* If a portion of the required installment is no longer treated as unpaid by reason of paragraph (d)(3)(iv)(A) of this section, then the minimum required contribution for the plan year for which the installment was due is increased by an amount equal to—

(*1*) The portion of the required installment that is no longer treated as unpaid by reason of paragraph (d)(3)(iv)(A) of this section, discounted for interest for the period from the last day of the quarter that includes the due date of the required installment to the valuation date, using the plan's effective interest rate for the plan year (determined pursuant to § 1.430(h)(2)-1(f)(1)); minus

(*2*) The portion of the required installment that is no longer treated as unpaid by reason of paragraph (d)(3)(iv)(A) of this section, discounted for interest for the period from the last day of the quarter that includes the due date of the required installment to the due date of the installment, using the plan's effective interest rate for the plan year plus 5 percentage points, and further discounted for interest for the period from the due date of the required installment to the valuation date using the plan's effective interest rate for the plan year.

(e) *Definitions*—(1) *In general.* The definitions set forth in this paragraph (e) apply for purposes of this section.

(2) *Adjusted disbursements*—(i) *In general.* The term *adjusted disbursements* means, with respect to a time period, the amount described in paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section if the time period is within a single plan year, or the amount described in paragraph (e)(2)(iii) of this section if the time period spans more than one plan year.

(ii) *Period within a single plan year.* With respect to a period within a plan year, the adjusted disbursements are the disbursements from the plan during that period reduced by the product of—

(A) The plan's funding target attainment percentage determined under section 430(d)(2) for the plan year that contains that period; and

(B) The sum of the purchases of annuities and payments of single sums for that period.

(iii) *Period spanning more than one plan year.* With respect to a period of time that spans more than one plan year, the adjusted disbursements are the sum of the adjusted disbursements determined separately under paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section for each portion of a plan year that is included in the time period for which adjusted disbursements are determined.

(3) *Disbursements from the plan.* The term *disbursements from the plan* means all disbursements from the plan's trust, including purchases of annuities, payments of single sums and other benefits, and payments of administrative expenses.

(4) *Funding shortfall*—(i) *In general.* Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (e)(4), the term *funding shortfall* has the same meaning as under § 1.430(a)-1(f)(2).

(ii) *Special rule for plans of commercial passenger airlines.* In the case of a plan year for which an election described in section 402(a)(1) of PPA '06 is in effect, the term *funding shortfall* means the unfunded liability for that plan year determined under § 1.430(a)-1(b)(4)(ii).

(iii) *Special rule for first effective plan year.* See paragraph (g)(5)(ii) of this section for a calculation of the funding shortfall for the plan's pre-effective plan year.

(iv) *Special rule for plan spinoffs and mergers.* [Reserved]

(5) *Liquid assets*—(i) *In general.* The term *liquid assets* means cash, marketable securities, and other assets described in this paragraph (e)(5)(i). For this purpose, marketable securities include financial instruments such as stocks and other equity interests, evidences of indebtedness (including certificates of deposit), options, futures contracts, and other derivatives, for which there is a liquid financial market, and other interests in entities (such as partnerships, trusts, or regulated investment companies) for which there is a liquid financial market. For purposes of the preceding sentence, a liquid financial market is an established financial market described in § 1.1092(d)-1(b) (other than an interbank market or an interdealer market described in § 1.1092(d)-1(b)(1)(v) and (vi), respectively). Any security that is issued or guaranteed by the government of the United States or an agency or instrumentality thereof for which there is an established financial market described in § 1.1092(d)-1(b) is a marketable security. Finally, any financial instrument or other interest in an entity that, under its terms, contains a right by which the instrument or other interest may immediately be redeemed, exchanged, or converted into cash or a marketable security, is a marketable security, provided there are no restrictions on the exercise of that right.

(ii) *Insurance and annuity contracts.* Other assets that are treated as liquid assets of a plan are insurance, annuity, or other contracts issued by an insurance company that is licensed to do business under the laws of any State, but only if the insurance, annuity, or other contract—

(A) Contains an unrestricted right by which the insurance, annuity or other contract may immediately be redeemed, exchanged, or converted into cash or a marketable security;

(B) Provides for substantially equal monthly disbursements to the extent provided in paragraph (e)(5)(iii) of this section; or

(C) Is benefit responsive within the meaning of paragraph (e)(5)(iv) of this section.

(iii) *Insurance and annuity contracts providing for substantially equal periodic payments.* If the contract provides for substantially equal monthly disbursements (for example, an annuity contract in pay status), the only portion of the contract that may be treated as liquid assets for a quarter is the amount equal to 36 times the monthly disbursement (in the month containing the last day of the quarter) which is available under the terms of the contract, provided there are no restrictions on the right to disbursements.

(iv) *Benefit responsive insurance and annuity contracts.* A contract is considered benefit responsive if, under applicable law and contractual provisions, the plan has the right to receive disbursements from the contract in order to pay plan benefits for any participant in the plan, without restrictions on that right.

(v) *Restrictions.* For purposes of this paragraph (e)(5), a restriction on a redemption, exchange, or conversion right, or a restriction on a right to receive a disbursement, may result not only from applicable law or contractual provisions, but also from rehabilitation, conservatorship, receivership, insolvency, bankruptcy, or similar proceedings.

(6) *Liquidity shortfall*—(i) *In general.* Except as modified in paragraph (e)(6)(iii) of this section with respect to multiple employer plans, the term *liquidity shortfall* means, with respect to any required installment, an amount equal to the excess (as of the last day of the quarter for which that installment is due) of—

(A) The base amount with respect to the quarter, over

(B) The value (as of the last day of the quarter) of the plan's liquid assets.

(ii) *Base amount*—(A) *In general.* For purposes of this paragraph (e)(6), the term *base amount* means, with respect to any quarter, an amount equal to 3 times the sum of the adjusted disbursements from the plan for the 12 months ending on the last day of that quarter.

(B) *Special rule.* If the generally applicable base amount for a quarter (as determined under paragraph (e)(6)(ii)(A) of this section) exceeds an amount equal to 2 times the sum of the adjusted disbursements from the plan for the 36 months ending on the last day of the quarter and the enrolled actuary for the plan certifies to the satisfaction of the Commissioner that such excess is the result of nonrecurring circumstances, then the base amount with respect to that quarter is determined without regard to amounts related to those nonrecurring circumstances.

(iii) *Multiple employer plans*—(A) *Satisfaction of liquidity requirement as if plan were not a multiple employer plan.* For a multiple employer plan to which section 413(c)(4)(A) applies, the liquidity requirement of paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section is satisfied if the liquidity requirement would be satisfied if the plan were a single-employer plan that is not a multiple employer plan to which section 413(c)(4)(A) applies.

(B) *Failure to satisfy the liquidity requirement on a plan-wide basis.* For a multiple employer plan to which section 413(c)(4)(A) applies, if the plan does not satisfy the liquidity requirement in accordance with paragraph (e)(6)(iii)(A) of this section, then the liquidity requirement must be applied separately for each employer under the plan, as if each employer maintained a separate plan. Thus, the value of plan assets as of the end of each quarter under such a multiple employer plan must be allocated among the employers sponsoring the plan, and the liquidity shortfall must be determined for each employer based on that allocation. See section 413(c)(7)(B) and paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

(7) *Plan month*—(i) *Plan year begins on the first day of a calendar month.* For a plan year that begins with the first day of a calendar month, the term *plan month* means any calendar month that begins during the plan year.

(ii) *Plan year begins on a date other than the first day of a calendar month.* For a plan year that begins on a date other than the first day of a calendar month, the first day of each plan month is the day of the calendar month that corresponds to the day of the calendar month that is the first day of the plan year. Thus, for example, if the first day of a plan year is January 15, then a plan month starts on the 15th of each calendar month. However, if a calendar month does not contain a day that corresponds to the day of the calendar month that is the first day of the plan year (for example, if a calendar month has only 30 days and the first day of the plan year is the 31st day of a calendar month), then the first day of the plan month that begins during that calendar month is the last day of that calendar month.

(8) *Quarter.* The term *quarter* means, with respect to any required installment, the 3-plan-month period preceding the plan month in which the due date for that installment occurs.

(9) *Short plan year.* The term *short plan year* means a plan year that is shorter than 12 months (and is not a 52-week plan year of a plan that uses a 52-53 week plan year).

(f) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the rules of this section. Unless otherwise indicated, these examples are based on the following assumptions: section 430 applies to determine the minimum required contribution for plan years beginning on or after January 1, 2008; the plan year is the calendar year; the valuation date is January 1; the plan sponsor is required to pay the installments described in paragraph (c) of this section; the plan does not have a liquidity shortfall; and the plan sponsor has not elected any funding relief under section 430(c)(2)(D) for any plan year. In addition, these examples assume that, under the funding method used for the plan, interest adjustments are calculated to the nearest half month (rather than days) for transactions that occur on the 1st and 15th of a calendar month.

Example 1.(i) Plan A has a funding standard carryover balance of $15,000 and a prefunding balance of zero as of January 1, 2016, and the plan's funding ratio for 2015 (determined under § 1.430(f)-1(d)(3)) was over 80%. The minimum required contribution for Plan A (determined prior to any offset for the funding standard carryover balance) is $100,000 for 2016 and is $125,000 for 2017. The effective interest rate for the 2017 plan year is 5.90%.

(ii) The required annual payment for 2017 is equal to the lesser of (a) 100% of the 2016 minimum required contribution ($100,000) or (b) 90% of the 2017 minimum required contribution (90% of $125,000, or $112,500). Therefore, each required installment for 2017 is 25% of $100,000, or $25,000.

(iii) Installments of $25,000 each are due by April 15, 2017, July 15, 2017, October 15, 2017, and January 15, 2018. The final contribution for the 2017 plan year is due by September 15, 2018. The amount of this final contribution is equal to $125,000, less the contributions made prior to that date, with all contributions adjusted to the valuation date using the effective interest rate for the 2017 plan year. If the plan sponsor makes each required installment on the date due, the remaining amount due is determined as follows:

(A) The contribution paid April 15, 2017 is adjusted by discounting the contribution amount for 31/2 months at the effective interest rate ($25,000 ÷ 1.0590(3.5/12) = $24,585).

(B) The contribution paid July 15, 2017 is discounted for 61/2 months at the effective interest rate ($25,000 ÷ 1.0590(6.5/12) = $24,236).

(C) The contribution paid October 15, 2017 is discounted for 91/2 months at the effective interest rate ($25,000 ÷ 1.0590(9.5/12) = $23,891).

(D) The contribution paid January 15, 2018 is discounted for 121/2 months at the effective interest rate ($25,000 ÷ 1.0590(12.5/12) = $23,551).

(E) The sum of the above contributions for the 2017 plan year paid through January 15, 2018, adjusted for interest to the valuation date, is $96,263. The remaining amount due for the 2017 plan year is $125,000 minus $96,263, or $28,737, as of January 1, 2017.

(iv) If the final contribution is made on September 15, 2018, the remaining amount due must be increased for interest at the plan's effective interest rate for the 201/2 months between January 1, 2017 and September 15, 2018 (so that, when it is discounted with interest for those 201/2 months, the resulting amount will equal $28,737). Therefore, the remaining contribution due on September 15, 2018 is $28,737 × 1.0590(20.5/12) = $31,694.

Example 2.(i) The facts are the same as in *Example 1,* except that the plan sponsor elects to use the $15,000 funding standard carryover balance as of January 1, 2016, to offset the minimum required contribution for the 2016 plan year. The plan sponsor makes a contribution on January 1, 2016 of $85,000, which satisfies the minimum contribution requirement for 2016.

(ii) The required installments for 2017 are unaffected by the plan sponsor's election to offset the minimum required contribution by the funding standard carryover balance for 2016. Therefore, the required annual payment for 2017 is $100,000 (determined as the lesser of (a) 100% of $100,000 or (b) 90% of $125,000) and the amount of each required installment for the 2017 plan year is 25% of the required annual payment, or $25,000.

Example 3.(i) The facts are the same as in *Example 1.* Plan A's funding standard carryover balance has increased to $17,000 as of January 1, 2017, based on the actual rate of return of plan assets during the 2016 plan year. Plan A's funding ratio for 2016 (determined under § 1.430(f)-1(d)(3)) is over 80%. On March 15, 2017, the plan sponsor elects to use the entire amount of the funding standard carryover balance to offset the minimum required contribution for 2017.

(ii) The plan sponsor's election to use the funding standard carryover balance to offset the minimum required contribution is treated as satisfying the requirement to make a required installment to the extent of the amount elected, adjusted with interest for the period from the beginning of the plan year to the due date of the installment using the plan's effective interest rate for the 2017 plan year. This adjustment is made for the 2.5-month period from the beginning of the plan year to the date of the election as provided in § 1.430(f)-1(b)(5), and for the one-month period from the date of the election to the due date for the installment, as provided in paragraphs (c)(3)(ii) and (c)(4) of this section. Therefore, the $17,000 funding standard carryover balance as of January 1, 2017 offsets $17,000 × 1.0590(2.5/12) × 1.0590(1/12) or $17,287 of the $25,000 required installment due April 15, 2017, and the remaining contribution due on April 15, 2017 is $25,000 minus $17,287, or $7,713.

(iii) The interest adjustments in paragraph (ii) of this *Example 3* are based on the effective interest rate even if that rate is not determined by the time that the required installment is due. If the plan's effective interest rate for the plan year has not been determined at the time that the required installment is due, the actual amount of the required installment satisfied by the use of the funding standard carryover balance is determined after the effective interest rate is determined. If the extent to which the funding standard carryover balance satisfies the required installment is overestimated and the result is that the full amount of the required installment is not paid by the due date, the plan is subject to the consequences for late or unpaid required installments as described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.

Example 4.(i) The facts are the same as in *Example 3.* The plan sponsor makes a contribution of $7,713 (which is equal to the remaining portion of the first required installment) on April 15, 2017. For the 2017 plan year, the plan sponsor makes another contribution of $200,000 on June 30, 2017. No further contributions are made for the 2017 plan year.

(ii) The contributions made for the 2017 plan year are adjusted to the valuation date using the plan's effective interest rate for the 2017 plan year. The contribution paid April 15, 2017 is discounted for the 31/2 months between January 1, 2017 and the date of payment, using the effective interest rate of 5.90% ($7,713 ÷ 1.0590(3.5/12) = $7,585). The contribution paid June 30, 2017 is discounted for 6 months using the effective interest rate ($200,000 ÷ 1.0590(6/12) = $194,349), for a total interest-adjusted contribution of $201,934.

(iii) The present value of the excess contribution for 2017 is based on the net contribution required for that year, which is the minimum required contribution minus the offset for the funding standard carryover balance, or $108,000 (that is, $125,000 minus $17,000). Accordingly, the present value of the excess contribution for 2017 is $201,934 minus $108,000, or $93,934. All or a portion of this amount may be credited to the prefunding balance at the election of the plan sponsor.

Example 5.(i) The facts are the same as in *Example 3.* The plan sponsor pays the required installment of $7,713 on April 15, 2017 and installments of $25,000 each on July 15, 2017 and October 15, 2017. However, only $10,000 of the installment due on January 15, 2018 is paid. No additional contributions are made until the final contribution for the plan year of $55,000 is paid on September 15, 2018.

(ii) The 2017 Schedule SB shows that the contributions for the plan year exceed the minimum required contribution. This is determined by comparing the net contribution requirement of $108,000 (equal to the minimum required contribution of $125,000 offset by $17,000 for the amount of funding standard carryover balance used) and the interest-adjusted contributions made for the 2017 plan year, developed as shown:

(A) The contribution paid April 15, 2017 is adjusted by discounting the contribution amount for 31/2 months at the effective interest rate ($7,713 ÷ 1.0590(3.5/12) = $7,585).

(B) The contribution paid July 15, 2017 is discounted for 61/2 months at the effective interest rate ($25,000 ÷ 1.0590(6.5/12) = $24,236).

(C) The contribution paid October 15, 2017 is discounted for 91/2 months at the effective interest rate ($25,000 ÷ 1.0590(9.5/12) = $23,891).

(D) The contribution paid January 15, 2018 is discounted for 121/2 months at the effective interest rate ($10,000 ÷ 1.0590(12.5/12) = $9,420).

(E) Pursuant to paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section, the interest rate used to adjust the $15,000 underpayment of the required installment due January 15, 2018 is increased by 5 percentage points for the 8-month period of underpayment (January 15, 2018 through September 15, 2018). Accordingly, $15,000 of the contribution paid on September 15, 2018 is discounted using a rate of 10.90% for 8 months to the due date of January 15, 2018, and is then further adjusted using the 5.90% effective interest rate for the 121/2 months between the required installment due date of January 15, 2018 and the valuation date of January 1, 2017. This portion of the September 15, 2018 contribution results in an adjusted amount of $13,189 as of January 1, 2017 ($15,000 ÷ 1.1090(8/12) ÷ 1.0590(12.5/12)).

(F) The remaining $40,000 of the contribution paid on September 15, 2018 is discounted using the effective interest rate of 5.90% for the 201/2-month period between the date of payment and the valuation date. This portion of the payment is therefore adjusted to $36,268 as of the valuation date (that is, $40,000 ÷ 1.0590(20.5/12)).

(G) The sum of the contributions (as calculated in paragraphs (ii)(A) through (F) of this *Example 5*) for the 2017 plan year paid through September 15, 2018, adjusted for interest to the valuation date, is $114,589. This is greater than the net contribution required for the 2017 plan year of $108,000.

Example 6.(i) The facts are the same as in *Example 5,* except that the plan sponsor does not make the contribution on September 15, 2018.

(ii) The 2017 Schedule SB shows an unpaid minimum required contribution of $42,868 as of January 1, 2017. This is equal to the difference between the net contribution required for 2017 of $108,000 (the minimum required contribution of $125,000, offset by $17,000 for the amount of the funding standard carryover balance used) and $65,132 (the interest-adjusted contributions made for the 2017 plan year before the 81/2 month deadline, as illustrated in paragraphs (ii)(A) through (ii)(D) of *Example 5*).

Example 7.(i) The facts are the same as in *Example 1,* except that the plan year is changed to an August 1-July 31 plan year effective August 1, 2017. This results in a short plan year beginning January 1, 2017 and ending July 31, 2017. The minimum required contribution for the 7-month period covered by the plan year is calculated as $72,917 in accordance with § 1.430(a)-1(b)(2)(ii).

(ii) As provided in paragraph (c)(7) of this section, a required installment is due 15 days after the end of the short plan year (August 15, 2017), and required installments are also due on the regularly scheduled due dates for required installments that occur within the short plan year (April 15, 2017 and July 15, 2017).

(iii) The required installments are determined based on the lesser of (a) 90% of the minimum required contribution for the short plan year ending July 31, 2017 (90% of $72,917, or $65,625) or (b) 7/12 of 100% of the 2016 minimum required contribution ($100,000 × 7/12, or $58,333). The required installments are thus based on $58,333 because that is the smaller amount.

(iv) The amount of each required installment is determined by dividing the amount determined in paragraph (iii) of this *Example 7* by the number of required installments for the short plan year. This calculation results in required installments of $19,444 each (that is, $58,333 divided by 3 installments).

(v) The deadline for the remaining payment is 81/2 months after the end of the short plan year, or April 15, 2018. If the plan sponsor pays the minimum required amount at each installment date, does not elect to offset any amounts by any funding standard carryover or prefunding balance, and makes a final payment on April 15, 2018, then the remaining payment is $17,429, determined as follows:

(A) The contribution paid April 15, 2017 is adjusted by discounting the contribution amount for 31/2 months at the effective interest rate ($19,444 ÷ 1.0590(3.5/12) = $19,122).

(B) The contribution paid July 15, 2017 is discounted for 61/2 months at the effective interest rate ($19,444 ÷ 1.0590(6.5/12) = $18,850).

(C) The contribution paid August 15, 2017 is discounted for 71/2 months at the effective interest rate ($19,444 ÷ 1.0590(7.5/12) = $18,760).

(D) The sum of the contributions for the 2017 plan year paid through August 15, 2017, adjusted for interest to the valuation date, is $56,732. The remaining amount paid April 15, 2018 for the 2017 plan year is ($72,917−$56,732) × 1.059(15.5/12) = $17,429.

Example 8.(i) Plan B has an August 10 to August 9 plan year.

(ii) For the plan year that begins on August 10, 2017, a plan month begins on the 10th day of each calendar month. Accordingly, the due dates for the required installments for that plan year are November 24, 2017, February 24, 2018, May 24, 2018 and August 24, 2018. The deadline for the final contribution for the plan year is April 24, 2019.

Example 9.(i) Plan C has a funding standard carryover balance of $0 and a prefunding balance of $65,000 as of January 1, 2017. Plan C's funding ratio for 2016 (determined under § 1.430(f)-1(d)(3)) was over 80%. The minimum required contribution for Plan C (determined prior to any offset for the funding standard carryover balance) is $120,000 for 2016. Required installments for the 2016 plan year were made timely, and the final installment of the minimum required contribution for the 2016 plan year is due on September 15, 2017 in the amount of $40,000.

(ii) Prior to April 15, 2017, the plan sponsor makes a standing election to use Plan C's funding balances to offset any otherwise unpaid required installments and any otherwise unpaid minimum required contribution. On June 1, 2017, the actuary completes the 2017 valuation and notifies the plan sponsor that the minimum required contribution for the 2017 plan year is $100,000. The effective interest rate for the 2017 plan year is 5.90%. No contributions are made for the 2017 plan year until September 15, 2018.

(iii) The first required installment for the 2017 plan year is due on April 15, 2017. Under § 1.430(f)-1(f)(1)(iii)(B), the amount of the prefunding balance used as of April 15, 2017 pursuant to the standing election is 25% of the $120,000 required annual payment for the 2016 plan year ($30,000). The prefunding balance is reduced by this amount, adjusted for the 31/2-month period between the January 1, 2017 valuation date and the April 15, 2017 due date, using the effective rate for Plan C for 2017 ($30,000 ÷ 1.0590(3.5/12), or $29,503). The prefunding balance is available to offset the April 15, 2017 required installment even though the minimum required contribution for the 2016 plan year has not yet been made, because the standing election to use Plan C's balances to offset the minimum required contribution for the 2016 plan year does not take effect until the due date for that contribution, or September 15, 2017. Therefore, as of April 15, 2017, the prefunding balance still exists and may be used to offset the required installment due as of that date.

(iv) The second required installment for the 2017 plan year is due on July 15, 2017, after the actuary determined the minimum required contribution for the 2017 plan year. The required annual payment for 2017 is equal to the lesser of (a) 100% of the 2017 minimum required contribution ($120,000) or (b) 90% of the 2017 minimum required contribution (90% of $100,000, or $90,000). Therefore, each required installment for 2017 is 25% of $90,000, or $22,500.

(v) Although the amount of the required installments for 2017 ($22,500) is smaller than the amount based on the 2016 minimum required contribution ($30,000), under § 1.430(f)-1(f)(1)(iii)(B), the amount of the prefunding balance used under the standing election continues to be the $30,000 based on the minimum required contribution for the 2016 plan year. Alternatively, the plan sponsor can make a replacement formula election to use the prefunding balance to cover the remaining required installments for the 2017 plan year as described in § 1.430(f)-1(f)(1)(iii)(C), based on required installments of $22,500 each.

(vi) The use of $30,000 of the prefunding balance as of April 15, 2017 pursuant to the standing election is irrevocable, and therefore the prefunding balance is not adjusted to reflect the fact that the first required installment for the 2017 plan year (based on the actual 2017 minimum required contribution) is lower than $30,000.

(vii) However, the excess of the $30,000 of prefunding balance used on April 15, 2017 over the first required installment is allocated toward the second required installment. In addition, if the plan sponsor makes a replacement formula election in accordance with § 1.430(f)-1(f)(1)(iii)(C), the amount of prefunding balance used pursuant to that election takes into account the actual required installment. In this case, the amount of the prefunding balance used to satisfy the July 15, 2017 required installment is $14,437. This amount is determined by (1) calculating the excess of the amount of the prefunding balance used on April 15, 2017 over the amount of the required installment due on that date ($30,000 − $22,500 = $7,500), and adjusting it for the 3 months from April 15, 2017 to July 15, 2017, using the effective interest rate ($7,500 × 1.0590(3/12) = $7,608), (2) deducting that amount from the required installment due July 15, 2017, to determine the net amount due as of that date ($22,500 − $7,608 = $14,892), and (3) adjusting the net amount to the valuation date of January 1, 2017 for the 61/2-month period between the valuation date and the due date for the required installment, using the effective interest rate for Plan C for 2017 ($14,892 ÷ 1.0590(6.5/12) = $14,437).

Example 10.(i) The facts are the same as in *Example 9,* except that Plan C's prefunding balance as of January 1, 2017 is only $20,000, and Plan C's sponsor makes a contribution larger than the minimum required contribution for the 2016 plan year on March 1, 2017.

(ii) The amount of the April 15, 2017 required installment that is satisfied by the plan sponsor's election to offset the prefunding balance is calculated by increasing the January 1, 2017 prefunding balance with interest for 31/2 months to April 15, 2017, using the effective interest rate for Plan C for 2017. This results in an offset of $20,337 ($20,000 × 1.0590(3.5/12)). A cash contribution of $2,163 ($22,500 − $20,337) is needed to satisfy the required installment on that date.

(iii) The excess contribution made for the 2016 plan year cannot be used to offset the remainder of the April 15, 2017 required installment even though it was contributed prior to the date the installment is due, because the sponsor had not yet elected to credit the excess contribution to the prefunding balance. If the plan sponsor elects at a later date to credit the excess contribution to the prefunding balance, the amount can be used to offset required installments due on or after the date of that election. However, note that if Plan C's actuary reflected the excess contribution for 2016 in certifying the 2017 adjusted funding target attainment percentage (AFTAP) used to apply benefit restrictions under section 436, a later election to credit the excess contribution to the prefunding balance would reduce the AFTAP and could cause Plan C to violate section 436.

Example 11.(i) Plan D is not a small plan described in § 1.430(g)-1(b)(2). The valuation date for Plan D is January 1, and Plan D's funding target attainment percentage (FTAP) was 82% as of January 1, 2016 and is 90% as of January 1, 2017. The amount needed to increase the plan's FTAP for the 2017 plan year to 100% (including the expected increase in the funding target due to benefits accruing or earned during the plan year) is $500,000. Before taking the liquidity requirement of paragraph (d) of this section into account, the plan sponsor of Plan D is required to pay installments for the 2017 plan year in the amount of $50,000 each. During the 12-month period ending March 31, 2017, periodic annuity payments of $425,000 and single sum payments of $200,000 were made by Plan D. Of the single sum payments, $125,000 were made during the 2016 plan year and $75,000 were made during the 2017 plan year. None of these payments were due to nonrecurring circumstances. In addition, administrative expenses of $25,000 were paid from the plan trust during the 12-month period ending March 31, 2017. As of March 31, 2017, the reported value of Plan D's assets is $1,500,000, and the fair market value of Plan D's liquid assets is $1,300,000.

(ii) The amount of the adjusted disbursements from Plan D for the 12-month period ending March 31, 2017 is calculated as the sum of the annuity benefits, single sum payments, and administrative expenses paid during the 12-month period, reduced by the product of the plan's FTAP and the sum of the single sum payments and any payments for annuities purchased during the plan year. This results in adjusted disbursements for the period of $480,000 (that is, $425,000 plus $200,000 plus $25,000, reduced by 82% of $125,000 in single sum payments during 2016 and 90% of $75,000 in single sum payments during 2017).

(iii) The base amount is calculated in accordance with paragraph (e)(6)(ii) of this section as three times the adjusted disbursements determined in paragraph (ii) of this *Example 11,* or $1,440,000.

(iv) The liquidity shortfall is the difference between the base amount of $1,440,000 determined in paragraph (iii) of this *Example 11* and the $1,300,000 in liquid assets as of March 31, 2017, or $140,000. The required installment due on April 15, 2017 is therefore $140,000, since this amount is larger than the $50,000 installment otherwise required, but less than the $500,000 needed to increase the plan's FTAP (including the expected increase in the funding target due to benefits accruing or earned during the plan year) to 100%.

(v) Note that any contributions of liquid assets made through March 31, 2017 are reflected for purposes of determining the fair market value of Plan D's liquid assets as of March 31, 2017 and are not applied toward satisfying the liquidity requirement as of April 15, 2017. Similarly, any funding standard carryover balance or prefunding balance as of January 1, 2017 cannot be applied to offset the liquidity requirement. Only contributions made in cash or other liquid assets made after March 31, 2017 and by April 15, 2017 can be used to timely satisfy this requirement.

Example 12.(i) The facts are the same as in *Example 11.* The plan sponsor makes a cash contribution for the 2017 plan year of $30,000 on April 15, 2017, and makes an additional cash contribution for the 2017 plan year of $110,000 on April 30, 2017. The effective interest rate for Plan D for the 2017 plan year is 5.90%.

(ii) Under paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section, the underpayment of the required installment due April 15, 2017 is $110,000 (that is, $140,000 minus $30,000).

(iii) Because the $110,000 contribution was made after the due date for the required installment (which reflects an unpaid liquidity amount) but during the quarter in which the installment was due, and because that contribution does not exceed the unpaid liquidity amount for the quarter, the special interest adjustment under paragraph (b)(4)(iii) of this section applies to the entire amount of the contribution. Accordingly, the contribution is adjusted for interest in two steps for the purpose of determining the portion of the minimum required contribution that is satisfied by the contribution. In the first step, the contribution is adjusted using the effective interest rate for the 2-month period from the payment date of April 30, 2017 to June 30, 2017, the last day of the quarter during which the liquidity requirement was due ($110,000 × 1.0590(2/12) = $111,056). In the second step, this amount is adjusted as if that amount had been paid on June 30, 2017. Accordingly, this amount ($111,056) is discounted for interest at a rate of 10.90% (the effective interest rate for the 2017 plan year of 5.90%, increased by 5 percentage points) for the 21/2-month period from June 30, 2017 to the April 15, 2017 due date for the installment, and is further discounted using the effective interest rate of 5.90% for the 31/2-month period between April 15, 2017 and the valuation date of January 1, 2017. Therefore, the April 30, 2017 contribution is adjusted to $106,886 as of January 1, 2017 ($111,056 ÷ 1.1090(2.5/12) ÷ 1.0590(3.5/12)).

(iv) The $140,000 contributed during April 2017 is needed to satisfy the required installment due April 15, 2017 (determined taking into account the liquidity shortfall as of March 31, 2017), and so the full amount is applied to satisfy that installment. No portion of those contributions is applied to the required installments for subsequent quarters, and no additional payments are needed to satisfy the required installment due April 15, 2017 (because the $110,000 payment satisfies both the unpaid liquidity amount and the remaining amount of the required installment described under paragraph (c)(5) of this section).

Example 13.(i) The facts are the same as in *Example 12,* except that the plan sponsor does not make the second cash contribution of $110,000 on April 30, 2017, but instead makes a second cash contribution of $75,000 for the 2017 plan year on July 15, 2017. The base amount as of June 30, 2017 calculated in accordance with paragraph (e)(6)(ii) of this section is $1,500,000, and the fair market value of liquid assets as of that date is $1,400,000.

(ii) Under paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section, the underpayment of the required installment due April 15, 2017 is $110,000 (that is, $140,000 minus $30,000).

(iii) As of June 30, 2017, no portion of the $110,000 underpayment of the required installment due April 15, 2017 has been satisfied. Under paragraph (d)(3)(iv)(A) of this section, to the extent that the amount due April 15, 2017 solely because of the liquidity requirement under paragraph (d)(1) of this section is not satisfied with a contribution of liquid assets during the quarter, this amount is no longer considered unpaid. Of the $110,000 underpayment of the required installment that was due on April 15, 2017, $20,000 would have been due without regard to the liquidity requirement under paragraph (d)(1) of this section and $90,000 was due solely because of that liquidity requirement. Accordingly, as of July 1, 2017, $90,000 of the required installment due on April 15, 2017 is no longer treated as unpaid and $20,000 of that required installment continues to be treated as unpaid.

(iv) Under paragraph (d)(3)(iv)(B) of this section, the interest adjustment in paragraph (b)(4)(iii) of this section for the $90,000 portion of the installment due April 15, 2017 that is no longer treated as unpaid is given effect through an increase in the minimum required contribution. This increase to the minimum required contribution is $837, which is determined as the difference between:

(A) The $90,000 portion of the required installment that is no longer treated as unpaid by reason of paragraph (d)(3)(iv)(A) of this section, discounted for the 6-month period between June 30, 2017 (the last day of the quarter in which the liquidity amount was due) to January 1, 2017 (the valuation date) using the plan's effective interest rate for 2017 (5.90%), resulting in $87,457 (that is, $90,000 ÷ 1.0590(6/12)), and

(B) The $90,000 portion of the required installment that is no longer treated as unpaid by reason of paragraph (d)(3)(iv)(A) of this section, discounted for the 21/2-month period between June 30, 2017 and the April 15, 2017 due date using the plan's effective interest rate increased by 5 percentage points (10.90%), and further discounted for the 31/2-month period between April 15, 2017 and January 1, 2017 valuation date using the plan's effective interest rate, for a result of $86,620 (that is, $90,000 ÷ 1.1090(2.5/12) ÷ 1.0590(3.5/12)).

(v) The remainder of the required installment that was due on April 15, 2017 without regard to the liquidity requirement ($20,000) remains unpaid until the July 15, 2017 contribution is made. Under paragraph (c) of this section, $20,000 of the July 15, 2017 contribution must be allocated to the required installment due on April 15, 2017. The interest adjustment under paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section applies to that $20,000 portion of the contribution because it is a late payment of a required installment. Accordingly, $20,000 of the July 15, 2017 contribution is adjusted to April 15, 2017, using an interest rate of 10.90% for the 3-month period between July 15, 2017 and the April 15, 2017 due date, and further adjusted using the effective interest rate of 5.90% for 31/2 months between April 15, 2017 and the January 1, 2017 valuation date. Therefore, the portion of the July 15, 2017 contribution attributable to the April 15, 2017 required installment is adjusted to $19,166 as of January 1, 2017 ($20,000 ÷ 1.1090(3/12) ÷ 1.0590(3.5/12)).

(vi) The liquidity shortfall is recalculated as of June 30, 2017 as $100,000 (that is, the base amount of $1,500,000 minus the value of liquid assets of $1,400,000). This amount is larger than the $50,000 required installment otherwise applicable, and so the amount of the required installment due on July 15, 2017 is $100,000. Of the $75,000 contribution made on July 15, 2017, $20,000 is applied to satisfy the remainder of the required installment due April 15, 2017, and the remaining $55,000 is applied toward the required installment due July 15, 2017. An additional contribution of $45,000 in liquid assets is needed to satisfy the required installment due July 15, 2017.

(vii) If instead there were no liquidity shortfall as of June 30, 2017, the required installment due July 15, 2017 would be $50,000. Of the $75,000 contribution made on July 15, 2017, $20,000 would be applied to satisfy the remainder of the required installment due April 15, 2017, $50,000 would be applied to satisfy the required installment due on July 15, 2017, and the remaining $5,000 would be applied toward the next required installment.

Example 14.(i) Plan E, which is a small plan described in section 430(g)(2)(B), has a calendar year plan year and a valuation date of December 31. The required installments for the 2017 plan year are $30,000 each and each of the required installments is paid on the due date. The effective interest rate for Plan E for the 2017 plan year is 5.90%.

(ii) The total contributions made for the plan year and before the valuation date, adjusted with interest to the valuation date, equal $92,402. This is developed as shown below:

(A) The contribution paid April 15, 2017 is adjusted by increasing the contribution amount for 81/2 months at the effective interest rate ($30,000 × 1.0590(8.5/12) = $31,243).

(B) The contribution paid July 15, 2017 is increased for 51/2 months at the effective interest rate ($30,000 × 1.0590 (5.5/12) = $30,799).

(C) The contribution paid October 15, 2017 is increased for 21/2 months at the effective interest rate ($30,000 × 1.0590(2.5/12) = $30,360).

(iii) Pursuant to § 1.430(g)-1(d)(2), the interest-adjusted value of the contributions for the 2017 plan year that are made before the valuation date is subtracted from the December 31, 2017 plan assets in determining the value of plan assets for the December 31, 2017 actuarial valuation.

Example 15.(i) The facts are the same as in *Example 14,* except that the first contribution for the 2017 plan year is made on May 15, 2017 in the amount of $40,000. The remaining amount of each required installment is paid on the date it is due.

(ii) In accordance with paragraph (c)(3)(iii) of this section, the amount of the required installment due on April 15, 2017 remains at $30,000, even though the associated contribution was not paid until May 15, 2017. Therefore, $30,000 of the payment is allocated to the April 15, 2017 required installment and the remaining $10,000 is allocated to the installment due on July 15, 2017.

(iii) Under paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section, the portion of the May 15, 2017 contribution allocated to the July 15, 2017 required installment is increased for interest for the 2 months between the date of the contribution and the due date, using the effective interest rate for 2017. Therefore, the amount allocated to the July 15, 2017 installment is $10,096 (that is, $10,000 × 1.0590(2/12)). The remaining installment due July 15, 2017 is $30,000 minus $10,096, or $19,904.

(iv) The total amount credited against the minimum required contribution is $122,062 as of December 31, 2017. This amount is calculated as shown below:

(A) The portion of the May 15, 2017 contribution allocated to the April 15, 2017 required installment is first adjusted for the 1 month between the due date and the payment date using the effective interest rate plus 5% ($30,000 ÷ 1.1090(1/12) = $29,742). This amount is then adjusted using the effective interest rate, for the 81/2 months between the due date of April 15, 2017 and the valuation date of December 31, 2017 ($29,742 × 1.0590(8.5/12) = $30,975).

(B) The remaining portion of the May 15, 2017 contribution ($10,000) is increased for the 71/2 months between the date of the contribution and the valuation date at the effective interest rate ($10,000 × 1.0590(7.5/12) = $10,365).

(C) The contribution paid July 15, 2017 is increased for 51/2 months at the effective interest rate ($19,904 × 1.0590(5.5/12) = $20,434).

(D) The contribution paid October 15, 2017 is increased for 21/2 months at the effective interest rate ($30,000 × 1.0590(2.5/12) = $30,360).

(E) The contribution paid January 15, 2018 is discounted for1/2 month at the effective interest rate ($30,000 ÷ 1.0590(0.5/12) = $29,928).

(v) The amount deducted from valuation assets as of December 31, 2017 for contributions made before the valuation date is determined without regard to the special interest adjustment for late payment of the required installment due April 15, 2017 (and without regard to the contribution paid on January 15, 2018).

Example 16.(i) Plan F has a required installment of $10,000 per quarter for the 2016 plan year. The plan sponsor makes a contribution of $9,993 on April 10, 2016. The effective interest rate for Plan F for the 2016 plan year is 5.90%.

(ii) In accordance with paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section, the contribution is increased for interest at the effective interest rate, for the 5 days between the contribution date and the due date for the required installment. Therefore, the amount credited against the required installment due April 15, 2016 is $10,001 ($9,993 × 1.0590(5/365)), and the required installment is satisfied.

Example 17.(i) The facts are the same as in *Example 16,* except that a contribution of $8,000 is made on April 20, 2016.

(ii) In accordance with paragraph (c)(3)(iii) of this section, the amount of the required installment due on April 15, 2016 remains at $10,000, even though the associated contribution was not paid until after the due date, and so $2,000 ($10,000 − $8,000) of the required installment remains unpaid as of April 20, 2016.

(iii) The amount of the April 20, 2016 contribution credited against the minimum required contribution for 2016 is $7,858. This amount is determined by first adjusting the contribution for the 5 days between the due date for the required installment and the date of the contribution using the effective interest rate for Plan F for the 2016 plan year, plus 5% ($8,000 ÷ 1.1090(5/365) = $7,989). The result is further adjusted for the 105 days from the due date for the required installment to the valuation date of January 1, 2016 using the effective interest rate of 5.90% ($7,989 ÷ 1.0590(105/365) = $7,858).

(iv) Alternatively, the amount of the April 20, 2016 contribution credited against the minimum required contribution for 2016 could be determined using 31/2 months between the due date for the required installment and the January 1, 2016 valuation date, as long as the calculation is done consistently for each contribution and for each plan year. Using this approach, the amount adjusted to the April 15, 2016 due date (using the effective interest rate for Plan F for the 2016 plan year plus 5%) is adjusted to January 1, 2016 for 31/2 months at the effective interest rate for Plan F for the 2016 plan year. Under this approach, the amount credited against the minimum required contribution is $7,856 ($8,000 ÷ 1.1090(5/365) ÷ 1.0590(3.5/12)).

Example 18.(i) Plan G has a funding standard carryover balance of $15,000 and a prefunding balance of $50,000 as of January 1, 2016. Plan G's required installments are $25,000 each for the 2017 plan year, and the final installment of the minimum required contribution for the 2016 plan year is due on September 15, 2017, in the amount of $40,000. Plan G's funding ratios for both 2015 and 2016 (determined under § 1.430(f)-1(d)(3)) were over 80%. No elections were made to reduce or use Plan G's funding balances during 2016. The effective interest rate for Plan G for the 2016 and 2017 plan years are 5.40% and 5.90%, respectively.

(ii) On April 15, 2017, Plan G's sponsor elected to use the balances to offset the required installment due on that date. The amount of the required installment is adjusted to January 1, 2017, using the effective interest rate for 2017 to determine the amount by which the balances are reduced. Accordingly, this election results in a reduction of $24,585 ($25,000 ÷ 1.0590(3.5/12) in the funding balances as of January 1, 2017.

(iii) On September 15, 2017, Plan G's sponsor elected to use the balances to offset the remaining minimum required contribution for the 2016 plan year due on that date. This amount is adjusted to January 1, 2016, using the effective interest rate for 2016 to determine the amount by which the balances are reduced. Accordingly, this election results in a reduction of $36,563 ($40,000 ÷ 1.0540(20.5/12) in Plan G's funding balances as of January 1, 2016.

(iv) Section 430(f)(3)(B) and § 1.430(f)-1(d)(2) require that the funding standard carryover balance be exhausted before the prefunding balance is used to offset required contribution amounts. Although the due date for the April 15, 2017 required installment occurs earlier than the due date for the 2016 minimum required contribution, for this purpose contributions for the 2016 plan year are deemed to occur before those for the 2017 plan year. Therefore, the election to offset the 2016 minimum required contribution will eliminate Plan G's funding standard carryover balance, and the 2017 required installment due April 15, 2017 will be offset by the prefunding balance.

(g) *Effective/applicability dates and transition rules*—(1) *Statutory effective date/applicability date.* Section 430 generally applies to plan years beginning on or after January 1, 2008. The applicability of section 430 for purposes of determining the minimum required contribution is delayed for certain plans in accordance with sections 104 through 106 of PPA '06.

(2) *Effective date/applicability date of regulations.* This section applies to plan years beginning on or after January 1, 2016. For plan years beginning before January 1, 2016, plans are permitted to rely on the provisions set forth in this section for purposes of satisfying the requirements of section 430(j).

(3) *First effective plan year.* For purposes of this section, the *first effective plan year* for a plan is the first plan year after the pre-effective plan year.

(4) *Pre-effective plan year.* For purposes of this section, the *pre-effective plan year* is the plan year described in § 1.430(a)-1(h)(5).

(5) *Special rules relating to first effective plan year*—(i) *Determination of minimum required contribution for pre-effective plan year.* In the case of the plan's first effective plan year, the minimum required contribution for the preceding plan year for purposes of paragraph (c)(5)(ii)(B) of this section is equal to the minimum required contribution under section 412 for the pre-effective plan year (determined without regard to any funding waiver under section 412), determined as of the last day of the pre-effective plan year and without regard to the plan's credit balance.

(ii) *Determination of funding shortfall for pre-effective plan year*—(A) *First effective plan year that begins during 2008.* In general, in the case of a plan with a first effective plan year that begins during 2008, the funding shortfall for the pre-effective plan year that precedes it is determined pursuant to paragraph (e)(4) of this section. However, for this purpose, the plan's current liability for the pre-effective plan year under section 412(l)(7) (as in effect for the pre-effective plan year) is permitted to be used in place of the plan's funding target for the pre-effective plan year. In addition, for this purpose, the value of plan assets that was used for the pre-effective plan year is permitted to be used in place of the value of plan assets computed pursuant to § 1.430(g)-1(c) for the pre-effective plan year, provided that the value of plan assets that was used for the pre-effective plan year was not less than 90 percent nor more than 110 percent of the value of plan assets computed pursuant to § 1.430(g)-1(c). If the value of plan assets that was used for the pre-effective plan year was less than 90 percent of the value of plan assets computed pursuant to § 1.430(g)-1(c), then 90 percent of the value of plan assets computed pursuant to § 1.430(g)-1(c) is permitted to be used as the value of plan assets for the pre-effective plan year. If the value of plan assets that was used for the pre-effective plan year was more than 110 percent of the value of plan assets computed pursuant to § 1.430(g)-1(c), then 110 percent of the value of plan assets computed pursuant to § 1.430(g)-1(c) is permitted to be used as the value of plan assets for the pre-effective plan year. Finally, for this purpose, the value of plan assets is permitted to be determined without subtraction for the plan's credit balance for the pre-effective plan year.

(B) *First effective plan year begins after 2008.* In the case of a plan with a first effective plan year that begins after December 31, 2008, the determination of the funding shortfall for the pre-effective plan year that immediately precedes it is made in accordance with paragraph (e)(4)(i) of this section. Thus, the funding shortfall for the pre-effective plan year is based on the funding target for the pre-effective plan year and the value of plan assets is determined under § 1.430(g)-1(c) for the pre-effective plan year, even though section 430(g) did not apply to the plan for purposes of determining the minimum required contribution for the pre-effective plan year.

[T.D. 9732, 80 FR 54390, Sept. 9, 2015]