##### ยง 219.205 Specimen collection and handling. #####

Link to an amendment published at 81 FR 37933, June 10, 2016.

(a) *General.* Urine and blood specimens must be obtained, marked, preserved, handled, and made available to FRA consistent with the requirements of this subpart, and the technical specifications set forth in Appendix C to this part.

(b) *Information requirements.* In order to process specimens, analyze the significance of laboratory findings, and notify the railroads and employees of test results, it is necessary to obtain basic information concerning the accident/incident and any treatment administered after the accident/incident. Accordingly, the railroad representative must complete the information required by Form FRA 6180.73 (revised) for shipping with the specimens. Each employee subject to testing must cooperate in completion of the required information on Form FRA F 6180.74 (revised) for inclusion in the shipping kit and processing of the specimens. The railroad representative must request an appropriate representative of the medical facility to complete the remaining portion of the information on each Form 6180.74. One Form 6180.73 must be forwarded in the shipping kit with each group of specimens. One Form 6180.74 must be forwarded in the shipping kit for each employee who provides specimens. Forms 6180.73 and 6180.74 may be ordered from the laboratory specified in appendix B to this part; the forms are also provided to railroads free of charge in the shipping kit. (See paragraph (c) of this section.)

(c) *Shipping kit.* (1) FRA and the laboratory designated in appendix B to this part make available for purchase a limited number of standard shipping kits for the purpose of routine handling of toxicological specimens under this subpart. Whenever possible, specimens must be placed in the shipping kit prepared for shipment according to the instructions provided in the kit and Appendix C to this part.

(2) Kits may be ordered directly from the laboratory designated in Appendix B to this part.

(3) FRA maintains a limited number of kits at its field offices. A Class III railroad may utilize kits in FRA's possession, rather than maintaining such kits on its property.

(d) *Shipment.* Specimens must be shipped as soon as possible by pre-paid air express or air freight (or other means adequate to ensure delivery within twenty-four (24) hours from time of shipment) to the laboratory designated in appendix B to this part. Where express courier pickup is available, the railroad must request the medical facility to transfer the sealed toxicology kit directly to the express courier for transportation. If courier pickup is not available at the medical facility where the specimens are collected or for any other reason prompt transfer by the medical facility cannot be assured, the railroad must promptly transport the sealed shipping kit holding the specimens to the most expeditious point of shipment via air express, air freight or equivalent means. The railroad must maintain and document secure chain of custody of the kit from release by the medical facility to delivery for transportation, as described in appendix C to this part.