cfr/title-24-Housing-Urban-Development/subtitle-A-Office-Secretary-Department-Housing-Urban-Development/part-15-Public-Access-HUD-Records-Under-Freedom-Information-Act-Testimony-Production-Information-HUD-Employees/subpart-B-Procedures-Disclosure-Records-Under-FOIA/section-15.107.md, before:

##### § 15.107 Documents generally protected from disclosure. #####

(a) *Classified documents.* Exemption 1 (5 U.S.C. 552(b)(1)) protects classified national defense and foreign relations information. HUD seldom relies on this exception to withhold documents. However, where applicable, HUD will refer a request for records classified under Executive Order 13526 and the pertinent records to the originating agency for processing. HUD may refuse to confirm or deny the existence of the requested information if the originating agency determines that the fact of the existence of the information itself is classified.

(b) The FOIA contains nine exemptions (5 U.S.C. 552(b)) that authorize agencies to withhold various records from disclosure. With regard to certain types of records, HUD generally applies the exemptions as follows:

(1) *Information prohibited from disclosure by another statute.* Exemption 3 (5 U.S.C. 552(b)(3)) protects information that is prohibited from disclosure by another Federal law. HUD generally will not disclose competitive proposals prior to contract award, competitive proposals that are not set forth or incorporated by reference into the awarded contract, (see 41 U.S.C. 4702), or, during the selection process, any covered selection information regarding such selection, either directly or indirectly (see 42 U.S.C. 3537a).

(2) *Commercial or financial information.* Exemption 4 (5 U.S.C. 552(b)(4)) protects trade secrets and commercial or financial information obtained from a person that is privileged and confidential. HUD will handle this type of information as provided by § 15.108.

(3) *Certain interagency or intra-agency communications.* Exemption 5 (5 U.S.C. 552(b)(5)) protects interagency or intra-agency communications that are protected by legal privileges, such as the attorney-client privilege, attorney work-product privilege, or communications reflecting the agency's deliberative process.

(4) *Personal privacy.* Exemption 6 (5 U.S.C. 552(b)(6)) protects information involving matters of personal privacy. This information may include personnel, medical, and similar files the disclosure of which would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy. Names, addresses, telephone numbers, and email addresses of persons residing in public or assisted housing or of borrowers in FHA-insured single family mortgage transactions generally will not be disclosed.

(5) *Certain interagency or intra-agency communications.* Exemption 5 (5 U.S.C. 552(b)(5)) protects interagency or intra-agency communications that are protected by legal privileges, such as the attorney-client privilege, attorney work-product privilege, or communications reflecting the agency's deliberative process. The deliberative process privilege shall not apply to records created 25 years or more before the date on which the records were requested.

(6) *Supervision of financial institutions.* Exemption 8 (5 U.S.C. 552(b)(8)) protects information relating to the supervision of financial institutions. For purposes of Exemption 8, HUD is an “agency responsible for the regulation and supervision of financial institutions” for purposes of monitoring fair housing compliance.

(7) *Wells.* Exemption 9 (5 U.S.C. 552(b)(9)) protects geological information on wells.

[80 FR 49145, Aug. 17, 2015, as amended at 82 FR 3623, Jan. 12, 2017]

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2017-05-10 issue
Title: 7: Agriculture - Sections changed: 6
Title: 16: Commercial Practices - Sections changed: 1
Title: 21: Food and Drugs - Sections changed: 24
Title: 24: Housing and Urban Development - Sections changed: 7
Title: 37: Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights - Sections changed: 4
Title: 40: Protection of Environment - Sections changed: 19
Title: 50: Wildlife and Fisheries - Sections changed: 6

cfr/title-24-Housing-Urban-Development/subtitle-A-Office-Secretary-Department-Housing-Urban-Development/part-15-Public-Access-HUD-Records-Under-Freedom-Information-Act-Testimony-Production-Information-HUD-Employees/subpart-B-Procedures-Disclosure-Records-Under-FOIA/section-15.107.md, after:

##### § 15.107 Documents generally protected from disclosure. #####

(a) HUD shall withhold information only if HUD reasonably foresees that disclosure would harm an interest protected by an exemption as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, or disclosure is prohibited by law. HUD will consider whether partial disclosure of information is possible whenever HUD determines that a full disclosure of a requested record is not possible, and will take reasonable steps necessary to segregate and release nonexempt information. Nothing in this section requires disclosure of information that is otherwise prohibited from disclosure by law, or otherwise exempted from disclosure as provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.

(b) The FOIA contains nine exemptions (5 U.S.C. 552(b)) that authorize agencies to withhold various records from disclosure. With regard to certain types of records, HUD generally applies the exemptions as follows:

(1) *Classified documents.* Exemption 1 (5 U.S.C. 552(b)(1)) protects classified national defense and foreign relations information. HUD seldom relies on this exception to withhold documents. However, where applicable, HUD will refer a request for records classified under Executive Order 13526 and the pertinent records to the originating agency for processing. HUD may refuse to confirm or deny the existence of the requested information if the originating agency determines that the fact of the existence of the information itself is classified.

(2) *Internal agency rules and practices.* Exemption 2 (5 U.S.C. 552(b)(2)) protects records relating to internal personnel rules and practices.

(3) *Information prohibited from disclosure by another statute.* Exemption 3 (5 U.S.C. 552(b)(3)) protects information that is prohibited from disclosure by another Federal law. HUD generally will not disclose competitive proposals prior to contract award, competitive proposals that are not set forth or incorporated by reference into the awarded contract (see 41 U.S.C. 4702), or, during the selection process, any covered selection information regarding such selection, either directly or indirectly (see 42 U.S.C. 3537a).

(4) *Commercial or financial information.* Exemption 4 (5 U.S.C. 552(b)(4)) protects trade secrets and commercial or financial information obtained from a person and privileged or confidential. HUD will handle this type of information as provided by § 15.108.

(5) *Certain interagency or intra-agency communications.* Exemption 5 (5 U.S.C. 552(b)(5)) protects interagency or intra-agency communications that are protected by legal privileges, such as the attorney-client privilege, attorney work-product privilege, or communications reflecting the agency's deliberative process. The deliberative process privilege shall not apply to records created 25 years or more before the date on which the records were requested.

(6) *Personal privacy.* Exemption 6 (5 U.S.C. 552(b)(6)) protects information involving matters of personal privacy. This information may include personnel, medical, and similar files the disclosure of which would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy. Names, addresses, telephone numbers, and email addresses of persons residing in public or assisted housing or of borrowers in FHA-insured single family mortgage transactions generally will not be disclosed.

(7) *Law enforcement records.* Exemption 7 (5 U.S.C. 552(b)(7)) protects certain records or information compiled for law enforcement purposes. This exemption protects records where the production could reasonably be expected to interfere with enforcement proceedings; for example, the names of individuals who have filed fair housing complaints. The protection of this exemption also encompasses, but is not limited to, information in law enforcement files that could reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy; the names of confidential informants, and techniques and procedures for law enforcement investigations, or guidelines for law enforcement investigations if such disclosure could reasonably be expected to risk circumvention of the law.

(8) *Supervision of financial institutions.* Exemption 8 (5 U.S.C. 552(b)(8)) protects information relating to the supervision of financial institutions. For purposes of Exemption 8, HUD is an “agency responsible for the regulation and supervision of financial institutions” for purposes of monitoring fair housing compliance.

(9) *Wells.* Exemption 9 (5 U.S.C. 552(b)(9)) protects geological information on wells.

[82 FR 21694, May 10, 2017]
