##### ยง 648.295 Tilefish commercial trip limits. #####

(a) *Golden tilefish* - (1) *Incidental trip limit for vessels not fishing under an IFQ allocation.* Any vessel of the United States fishing under a tilefish permit, as described at ยง 648.4(a)(12), is prohibited from possessing more than 500 lb (226.8 kg) of golden tilefish at any time, unless the vessel is fishing under a tilefish IFQ allocation permit, as specified at ยง 648.294(a). Any golden tilefish landed by a vessel fishing under an IFQ allocation permit, on a given fishing trip, count as landings under the IFQ allocation permit.

(2) *In-season closure of the incidental fishery.* The Regional Administrator will monitor the harvest of the golden tilefish incidental TAL based on dealer reports and other available information, and shall determine the date when the incidental golden tilefish TAL has been landed. The Regional Administrator shall publish a notice in the Federal Register notifying vessel and dealer permit holders that, effective upon a specific date, the incidental golden tilefish fishery is closed for the remainder of the fishing year.

(b) *Blueline tilefish* - (1) *Commercial possession limit.* Any vessel of the United States fishing under a tilefish permit, as described at ยง 648.4(a)(12), is prohibited from possessing more than 300 lb (136 kg) of blueline tilefish per trip in or from the Tilefish Management Unit. Commercial blueline tilefish must be landed with head and fins naturally attached, but may be gutted.

(2) *In-season closure of the commercial fishery.* The Regional Administrator will monitor the harvest of the blueline tilefish commercial TAL based on dealer reports and other available information, and shall determine the date when the blueline tilefish commercial TAL will be landed. The Regional Administrator shall publish a notice in the Federal Register notifying vessel and dealer permit holders that, effective upon a specific date, the blueline tilefish commercial fishery is closed for the remainder of the fishing year.

[82 FR 52860, Nov. 15, 2017]