##### § 301.6707A-1 Failure to include on any return or statement any information required to be disclosed under section 6011 with respect to a reportable transaction. #####

(a) *In general.* Any person who fails to include on any return or statement any information required to be disclosed under section 6011 with respect to a reportable transaction may be subject to a monetary penalty. Subject to maximum and minimum limits, the penalty for failure to include information with respect to any reportable transaction is 75 percent of the decrease in tax shown on the return as a result of the transaction or the decrease that would have resulted from the transaction if it were respected for Federal tax purposes. The penalty for failure to include information with respect to a listed transaction shall not exceed $100,000 for a natural person and $200,000 for all other persons. The penalty for failure to include information with respect to any other reportable transaction shall not exceed $10,000 for a natural person and $50,000 for all other persons. The penalty with respect to any reportable transaction shall not be less than $5,000 for a natural person and $10,000 for all other persons. The section 6707A penalty is in addition to any other penalty that may be imposed.

(b) *Definitions* - (1) *Reportable transaction.* The term “reportable transaction” is defined in section 6707A(c)(1) of the Code and § 1.6011-4(b)(1) of this chapter.

(2) *Listed transaction.* The term “listed transaction” is defined in section 6707A(c)(2) of the Code and § 1.6011-4(b)(2) of this chapter.

(c) *Assessment of the penalty* - (1) *In general.* The Internal Revenue Service may assess a penalty under section 6707A with respect to each failure to disclose a reportable transaction within the time and in the form and manner provided by §§ 1.6011-4(d) and 1.6011-4(e) of this chapter or pursuant to the time, form, and manner stated in other published guidance. Section 1.6011-4(e) provides, in part, that a taxpayer must attach a disclosure statement to the taxpayer's return for each taxable year for which the taxpayer participates in a reportable transaction. A taxpayer also must attach a disclosure statement to each amended return that reflects the taxpayer's participation in a reportable transaction and, if a reportable transaction results in a loss that is carried back to a prior year, a taxpayer must attach a disclosure statement to the taxpayer's application for tentative refund or amended return for that prior year. In addition, a copy of the disclosure statement must be sent to the IRS Office of Tax Shelter Analysis (OTSA) at the same time that any disclosure statement is first filed by the taxpayer pertaining to a particular reportable transaction. Nonetheless, a taxpayer who is required to disclose a transaction by filing Form 8886, “Reportable Transaction Disclosure Statement,” (or successor form) with a return (including an amended return or application for tentative refund) and who is also required to disclose the transaction by filing that form with OTSA, is subject to only a single section 6707A penalty for failure to make either one or both of those disclosures. If section 6011 and the regulations thereunder require a disclosure statement to be filed at the time that a return is filed, the disclosure statement is considered to be timely filed if it is filed at the same time as the return, even if the return is filed untimely after its due date (including extensions).

(2) *Examples.* The rules of paragraph (c)(1) of this section are illustrated by the following examples:

Example 1.Taxpayer T is required to attach a Form 8886 to its return for the 2008 taxable year and to send a copy of the Form 8886 to OTSA at the time it files its return. Taxpayer T fails to attach the Form 8886 to its return and fails to send a copy of the Form 8886 to OTSA. Taxpayer T is subject to a single penalty under section 6707A for failure to disclose because Taxpayer T failed to comply with the disclosure requirements of section 6011 as described in §§ 1.6011-4(d) and 1.6011-4(e) of this chapter. A penalty under section 6707A also would apply if Taxpayer T had failed to comply with only one of the two requirements.Example 2.Same as *Example 1,* except that Taxpayer T also subsequently files an amended return for 2008 that reflects Taxpayer T's participation in the reportable transaction described in *Example 1.* Taxpayer T fails to attach a Form 8886 to the amended return as required by § 1.6011-4(e)(1) of this chapter. Taxpayer T is subject to an additional penalty under section 6707A for failing to disclose a reportable transaction on the amended return for 2008.Example 3.In November 2009, Taxpayer U participates in a reportable transaction resulting in a loss. On March 15, 2010, Taxpayer U files its 2009 return, on which it reports the loss and to which it fails to attach a Form 8886. One month later, Taxpayer U files an amended return for 2008, on which it carries back the loss and to which it fails to attach a Form 8886. Section 1.6011-4(e)(1) of this chapter requires Taxpayer U to attach a Form 8886 to its amended return for the 2008 taxable year. Taxpayer U is subject to two penalties under section 6707A: one for the failure to attach Form 8886 to its amended return for 2008 and another for the failure to attach Form 8886 to its 2009 return.Example 4.Taxpayer V participates in a nonlisted reportable transaction and is required to attach a Form 8886 to its return for the 2009 taxable year that is due on March 15, 2010. Taxpayer V timely files its return but fails to attach the Form 8886 to its return. After the due date of Taxpayer V's return and without an extension of time to file, Taxpayer V files an amended return relating to the 2009 taxable year to which Taxpayer V attaches the Form 8886. Taxpayer V is subject to a penalty under section 6707A for failure to disclose because Taxpayer V failed to comply with the disclosure requirements of section 6011 (described in § 1.6011-4(e)(1) of this chapter) by not attaching a Form 8886 to its original return for the 2009 taxable year that was timely filed on or before the due date of March 15, 2010. An additional penalty under section 6707A would apply if Taxpayer V had failed to attach a Form 8886 to its amended return.Example 5.Shareholder W, a shareholder in an S Corporation, receives a timely Schedule K-1, “Shareholder's Share of Income, Deductions, Credits, *etc.,”* on April 10, 2009, and determines that she is required to attach a Form 8886 to her individual income tax return for the 2008 taxable year. Shareholder W fails to attach the Form 8886 to her 2008 individual income tax return but files a proper and complete Form 8886 with OTSA on June 12, 2009. Section 1.6011-4(e)(1) of this chapter provides that if a taxpayer who is a partner in a partnership, a shareholder in an S corporation, or a beneficiary of a trust receives a timely Schedule K-1 less than 10 calendar days before the due date of the taxpayer's return (including extensions) and, based on receipt of the timely Schedule K-1, the taxpayer determines that the taxpayer participated in a reportable transaction, the disclosure statement will not be considered late if the taxpayer discloses the reportable transaction by filing a disclosure statement with OTSA within 60 calendar days after the due date of the taxpayer's return (including extensions). Accordingly, Shareholder W is not subject to a penalty under section 6707A for failure to disclose.Example 6.In July 2008, Taxpayer X participates in Transaction Z, a transaction that is not reportable as of April 15, 2009, the date Taxpayer X files his individual income tax return for 2008. On July 15, 2009, Transaction Z is identified as a transaction of interest. Section 1.6011-4(e)(2)(i) of this chapter provides that if a transaction that is not otherwise a reportable transaction becomes a listed transaction or a transaction of interest after the taxpayer has filed a tax return (including an amended return) reflecting the taxpayer's participation in the listed transaction or transaction of interest and before the end of the period of limitations for assessment of tax for any taxable year in which the taxpayer participated in the listed transaction or transaction of interest, then a disclosure statement must be filed with OTSA within 90 calendar days after the date on which the transaction became a listed transaction or transaction of interest, regardless of whether the taxpayer participated in the transaction in the year the transaction became a listed transaction or a transaction of interest. Taxpayer X fails to file a Form 8886 with OTSA by October 13, 2009, 90 calendar days after the date that the transaction was identified as a transaction of interest. Accordingly, Taxpayer X is subject to a penalty under section 6707A.Example 7.Taxpayer Y is required to attach a Form 8886 to its return for the 2008 taxable year with respect to participation in a listed transaction. Taxpayer Y attaches the Form 8886 to its timely filed return. The Form 8886, however, does not describe all of the potential tax benefits expected to result from this transaction and states that information will be provided upon request. Because the Form 8886 does not describe all of the potential tax benefits expected to result from the transaction and merely provides that the information will be provided upon request, the Form 8886 filed by Taxpayer Y is incomplete and does not satisfy the requirements set forth in § 1.6011-4(d) of this chapter. Taxpayer Y is subject to a penalty under section 6707A for failure to disclose in the appropriate manner.

(d) *Rescission authority* - (1) *In general.* The Commissioner (or the Commissioner's delegate) may rescind the section 6707A penalty if -

(i) The violation relates to a reportable transaction that is not a listed transaction; and

(ii) Rescinding the penalty would promote compliance with the requirements of the Code and effective tax administration.

(2) *Requesting rescission.* The Secretary may prescribe the procedures for a taxpayer to request rescission of a section 6707A penalty with respect to a reportable transaction other than a listed transaction by publishing a revenue procedure or other guidance in the Internal Revenue Bulletin.

(3) *Factors that weigh in favor of granting rescission.* In determining whether rescission would promote compliance with the requirements of the Internal Revenue Code and effective tax administration, the Commissioner (or the Commissioner's delegate) will take into account the following list of factors that weigh in favor of granting rescission. This is not an exclusive list and no single factor will be determinative of whether to grant rescission in any particular case. Rather, the Commissioner (or the Commissioner's delegate) will consider and weigh all relevant factors, regardless of whether the factor is included in this list.

(i) The taxpayer, upon becoming aware that it failed, in whole or in part, to disclose a reportable transaction in accordance with the requirements of § 1.6011-4 of this chapter, filed a complete and proper, albeit untimely, Form 8886 (or successor form), as required by § 1.6011-4. If the penalty is due to the taxpayer's failure to file Form 8886 (or successor form) with a return (including an amended return or application for tentative refund), in order for an untimely disclosure to weigh in favor of rescission, the taxpayer must file an amended return with the appropriate Service Center and attach a complete and proper Form 8886 (or successor form) to that amended return. The amended return filed with the untimely Form 8886 (or successor form) must not reflect any other changes to the return (including an amended return or application for tentative refund) that it amends, and the taxpayer must, in the space provided for an explanation of changes on the amended return, state the reason for filing the amended return. If the penalty is due to the taxpayer's failure to file Form 8886 (or successor form) with OTSA, in order for an untimely disclosure to weigh in favor of rescission, the taxpayer must file a complete and proper Form 8886 (or successor form) with OTSA. If the taxpayer fails to file a complete and proper Form 8886 (or successor form) with the return (including an amended return or application for tentative refund) and also fails to file a copy of the complete and proper Form 8886 (or successor form) with OTSA, incurring one penalty for both failures, then the taxpayer must, in the manner prescribed in this paragraph (d)(3)(i), file complete and proper Forms 8886 with both the Service Center and OTSA in order for the untimely disclosures to weigh in favor of rescission. This factor will weigh heavily in favor of rescission provided that -

(A) The taxpayer files the Form 8886 prior to the date the IRS first contacts the taxpayer (including contacts by the IRS with any partnership in which the taxpayer is a partner, any S corporation in which the taxpayer is a shareholder, or any trust in which the taxpayer is a beneficiary) concerning a tax examination for the tax period in which the taxpayer participated in the reportable transaction; and

(B) Other circumstances suggest that the taxpayer did not delay filing an untimely but properly completed Form 8886 until after the IRS had taken steps to identify the taxpayer's participation in the reportable transaction in question.

(ii) The failure, in whole or in part, to disclose in accordance with the requirements of § 1.6011-4 of this chapter was due to an unintentional mistake of fact that existed despite the taxpayer's reasonable attempts to ascertain the correct facts with respect to the transaction.

(iii) The taxpayer has an established history of properly disclosing other reportable transactions and complying with other tax laws.

(iv) The taxpayer demonstrates that the failure to include on any return or statement any information required to be disclosed under section 6011 arose from events beyond the taxpayer's control.

(v) The taxpayer cooperates with the IRS by providing timely information with respect to the transaction at issue that the Commissioner (or the Commissioner's delegate) may request in consideration of the rescission request. In considering whether a taxpayer cooperates with the IRS, the Commissioner (or the Commissioner's delegate) will take into account whether the taxpayer meets the deadlines described in Rev. Proc. 2007-21 (2007-1 CB 613) (or successor document) (see § 601.601(d)(2)(ii)(*b*) of this chapter) for complying with requests for additional information.

(vi) Assessment of the penalty weighs against equity and good conscience, including whether the taxpayer demonstrates that there was reasonable cause for, and the taxpayer acted in good faith with respect to, the failure to timely file or to include on any return any information required to be disclosed under section 6011. An important factor in determining reasonable cause and good faith is the extent of the taxpayer's efforts to ensure that persons who prepared the taxpayer's return were informed of the taxpayer's participation in the reportable transactions; this factor will be disregarded, however, if the persons who prepared the taxpayer's return were material advisors with respect to the reportable transaction. The presence of reasonable cause, however, will not necessarily be determinative of whether to grant rescission.

(4) *Absence of favorable factors weighs against rescission.* The absence of facts establishing the factors described in paragraph (d)(3) of this section weighs against granting rescission. The absence of any one of these factors, however, will not necessarily be determinative of whether to grant rescission.

(5) *Factors not considered.* In determining whether to grant rescission, the Commissioner (or the Commissioner's delegate) will not consider collectability of, or doubt as to liability for, the penalties (except that the Commissioner may consider doubt as to liability to the extent it is a factor in the determination of reasonable cause and good faith).

(6) *Example.* The following example illustrates the rules of paragraph (d)(3) of this section:

Example.In 2008, Taxpayer Z participated in a nonlisted reportable transaction for the first time. Under § 1.6011-4(e)(1) of this chapter, he was required to attach a complete and proper Form 8886 to his 2008 return, due on April 15, 2009, and to file a copy of the Form 8886 with OTSA. Taxpayer Z timely filed his 2008 return but failed to attach a Form 8886 to his return or file a Form 8886 with OTSA. On June 1, 2009, Taxpayer Z discovered his error. On June 8, 2009, Taxpayer Z filed an amended return for tax year 2008 and attached a complete and proper Form 8886 that disclosed his participation in the reportable transaction. The amended return reflected no changes from the original return and explained that the sole purpose of the amended return was to correct Taxpayer Z's failure to file a Form 8886 with his original return. On June 8, 2009, Taxpayer Z also filed a copy of the complete and proper Form 8886 with OTSA. The IRS later notified Taxpayer Z that he was subject to a penalty under section 6707A because he failed to comply with the disclosure requirements of section 6011 by not attaching Form 8886 to his return for the 2008 taxable year. The IRS properly assessed the penalty under section 6707A and, on October 15, 2010, issued notice and demand. On November 1, 2010, in accordance with Rev. Proc. 2007-21, Taxpayer Z submitted a written request for rescission of the assessed penalty. The fact that Taxpayer Z filed an untimely Form 8886 shortly after discovery of his error but before the IRS first contacted him concerning his return for the 2008 taxable year will weigh heavily in favor of rescission.

(e) *Reports to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)* - (1) *In general.* Under section 6707A(e), a taxpayer who is required to file periodic reports under section 13 or section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (or is required to be consolidated with another person for purposes of these reports) must disclose in certain reports, as provided in revenue procedures or other guidance published pursuant to paragraph (e)(2) of this section, the requirement to pay each of the following penalties:

(i) The penalty imposed by section 6707A(a) for failure to disclose a listed transaction.

(ii) The accuracy-related penalty imposed by section 6662A(a) at the 30- percent rate determined under section 6662A(c) for a reportable transaction understatement with respect to which the relevant facts affecting the tax treatment of the reportable transaction were not adequately disclosed in accordance with regulations prescribed under section 6011.

(iii) The accuracy-related penalty imposed by section 6662(a) at the 40-percent rate determined under section 6662(h) for a gross valuation misstatement, if the taxpayer (but for the exclusionary rule of section 6662A(e)(2)(C)(ii)) would have been subject to the accuracy-related penalty under section 6662A(a) at the 30-percent rate determined under section 6662A(c).

(iv) The penalty described in paragraph (e)(3) of this section for failure to disclose in periodic reports filed with the SEC the requirement to pay any of the penalties described in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (e)(1)(iii) or paragraph (e)(3) of this section.

(2) *Manner and content of disclosure.* The Secretary may, by publishing a revenue procedure or other guidance in the Internal Revenue Bulletin, prescribe the manner in which the disclosure under paragraph (e)(1) of this section must be made, including identification of the specific SEC form and section thereof in which the taxpayer must make the disclosure as well as specification of the timing and contents of the disclosure.

(3) *Penalty for failure to disclose in SEC filings.* Any taxpayer who is required to file periodic reports under section 13 or section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (or is required to file consolidated reports with another person) may be subject to a penalty under section 6707A(b) for each failure to disclose the requirement to pay a penalty identified in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (e)(1)(iii) of this section in the manner specified by revenue procedure or other guidance published in the Internal Revenue Bulletin. The taxpayer also may be subject to an additional penalty under section 6707A(b) for each failure to disclose a penalty arising under this section in the manner specified by revenue procedure or other guidance published in the Internal Revenue Bulletin. The penalty provided by this paragraph (e)(3) will be rescinded if the IRS rescinds in full the penalty for failing to disclose under section 6011 the reportable transaction underlying the penalty provided by this section. Otherwise, the penalty provided by this paragraph (e)(3) is not subject to rescission.

(f) *Effective/applicability date.* (1) The rules of this section apply to disclosure statements that are due after September 11, 2008.

(2) The penalty calculations set forth in paragraph (a) of this section apply to penalties assessed after December 31, 2006.

[T.D. 9550, 76 FR 55258, Sept. 7, 2011]