##### § 20.1508 Rule 1508. Waiver. #####

(a) *General.* When requested by VA, a participant will waive, in writing, identified procedural processing issues and actions relating to covered claims. VA will provide the participant with a clear explanation, in writing, as to what rights he or she may be waiving. If a hearing on appeal is conducted, the waiver may be formally and clearly entered on the record at the time of hearing. A response to a written waiver request from VA must be filed within the 30-day period prescribed in § 20.1504(a)(3) of this part. Such waiver is not required for matters that have already been waived by virtue of electing participation in the Initiative.

(b) *Evidence obtained or submitted after the Statement of the Case* - (1) *Evidence obtained by VA.* If new evidence is obtained by VA following issuance of a Statement of the Case under §§ 19.29 and 19.30 of this chapter, and the claim(s) is not otherwise granted in full based on this new evidence, VA will provide a copy of such evidence to the participant and representative, and request a waiver of review by the agency of original jurisdiction of such evidence and issuance of a Supplemental Statement of the Case pursuant to the provisions set forth in § 20.1304(c) of this part. A response to a written waiver request from VA must be filed within the 30-day period prescribed in § 20.1504(a)(3) of this part. The failure of the participant to agree to a waiver of initial consideration by the agency of original jurisdiction of any evidence obtained by VA will constitute an implied revocation of participation in the Initiative, as provided by § 20.1509(c)(2).

(2) *Evidence submitted by participant or representative.* If new evidence is submitted by the participant or representative following issuance of a Statement of the Case under §§ 19.29 and 19.30 of this chapter, the participant, by virtue of executing a valid Agreement and Waiver of Rights, is deemed to have knowingly and voluntarily waived agency of original jurisdiction review of such evidence and issuance of a Supplemental Statement of the Case, which permits the Board to review such evidence in the first instance.

(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501(a))