##### ยง 4901.14 Action on request. #####

(a) *Time for action.* Promptly and in any event within 10 working days after receipt of a disclosure request (subject to extension under ยง 4901.16), the disclosure officer shall take action with respect to each requested item (or portion of an item) under either paragraph (b), (c), or (d) of this section. When responding to a request under paragraph (b), (c), or (d) of this section, the disclosure officer will notify the requester of the requester's right to seek assistance from the PBGC's FOIA Public Liaison and will provide information about how to contact the FOIA Public Liaison.

(b) *Request granted.* If the disclosure officer determines that the request should be granted, the requester shall be so advised and the records shall be promptly made available to the requester.

(c) *Request denied.* If the disclosure officer determines that the request should be denied, the requester shall be so advised in writing with a brief statement of the reasons for the denial, including a reference to the specific exemption(s) authorizing the denial and an explanation of how each such exemption applies to the matter withheld. The denial shall also include the name and title or position of the person(s) responsible for the denial, outline the appeal procedure available, and notify the requester of the right to seek dispute resolution services from the PBGC's FOIA Public Liaison or the Office of Government Information Services.

(d) *Records not promptly located.* As to records that are not located in time to make an informed determination, the disclosure officer may deny the request and so advise the requester in writing with an explanation of the circumstances and notice of the requester's right to seek dispute resolution services from the PBGC's FOIA Public Liaison or the Office of Government Information Services. The denial shall also include the name and title or position of the person(s) responsible for the denial, outline the appeal procedure available, and advise the requester that the search or examination will be continued and that the denial may be withdrawn, modified, or confirmed when processing of the request is completed.

[61 FR 34123, July 1, 1996, as amended at 82 FR 26992, June 13, 2017]