##### § 1.802(b)-1 Tax on life insurance companies. #####

(a) For taxable years beginning after December 31, 1953, but before January 1, 1955, and ending after August 16, 1954, section 802(b) imposes a tax on the 1954 life insurance company taxable income of all life insurance companies (including a foreign life insurance company carrying on a life insurance business within the United States if with respect to its United States business it would qualify as a life insurance company under section 801). The tax so imposed is equal to 33/4 percent of the amount of such income not in excess of $200,000, plus 61/2 percent of the amount of such income in excess of $200,000. For the definition of the term “1954 life insurance company taxable income”, see § 1.805-1.

(b) The taxable income of life insurance companies differs from the taxable income of other corporations. See section 803. Life insurance companies are entitled, in computing life insurance company taxable income, to the special deductions provided in part VIII (section 241 and following), except section 248, subchapter B, chapter 1 of the Code. The gross income, the deduction under section 803 (g)(1) for wholly tax-exempt interest, and the deduction under section 242 for partially tax-exempt interest, are decreased by the appropriate amortization of premium and increased by the appropriate accrual of discount attributable to the taxable year on bonds, notes, debentures, or other evidences of indebtedness held by a life insurance company. See section 803 (i) and § 1.803-6. Such companies are not subject to the provisions of subchapter P (section 1201 and following), chapter 1 of the Code, relating to capital gains and losses, nor to the provisions of section 171 (amortizable bond premium).

(c) All provisions of the Code and of the regulations in this part not inconsistent with the specific provision of sections 801 to 807, inclusive, are applicable to the assessment and collection of the tax imposed by section 802, and life insurance companies are subject to the same penalties as are provided in the case of returns and payment of income tax by other corporations. The return shall be on Form 1120L.

(d) Foreign life insurance companies not carrying on an insurance business within the United States are not taxable under section 802, but are taxable as other foreign corporations. See section 881.