##### ยง 1.803-4 Taxable income and deductions. #####

(a) *In general.* The taxable income of a life insurance company is its gross amount of income received or accrued during the taxable year from interest, dividends, and rents, less the deductions provided in section 803(g) for wholly tax-exempt interest, investment expenses, real estate expenses, depreciation, and the special deductions provided in part VIII (section 241 and following, except section 248), subchapter B, chapter 1 of the Code. In addition to the limitations on deductions relating to real estate owned and occupied by a life insurance company provided in section 803(h), the limitations on the adjustment for amortization of premium and accrual of discount provided in section 803(i), and the limitation on the deduction for investment expenses where general expenses are allocated to investment income provided in section 803(g)(2), life insurance companies are subject to the limitations on deductions relating to wholly tax-exempt income provided in section 265. Life insurance companies are not entitled to the net operating loss deduction provided in section 172.

(b) *Wholly tax-exempt interest.* Interest which in the case of other taxpayers is excluded from gross income by section 103 but included in the gross income of a life insurance company by section 803(a)(2) is allowed as a deduction from gross income by section 803(g)(1).

(c) *Investment expenses.* (1) As used in the Code, the term *general expenses* means any expense paid or incurred for the benefit of more than one department of the company rather than for the benefit of a particular department thereof. Any assignment of such expense to the investment department of the company for which a deduction is claimed under section 803(g)(2) subjects the entire deduction for investment expenses to the limitation provided in that section. The accounting procedure employed is not conclusive as to whether any assignment has in fact been made. Investment expenses do not include Federal income and excess profits taxes.

(2) If no general expenses are assigned to or included in investment expenses the deduction may consist of investment expenses paid or incurred during the taxable year in which case an itemized schedule of such expenses must be appended to the return.

(3) Invested assets for the purpose of section 803(g)(2) and this section are those which are owned and used, and to the extent used, for the purpose of producing the income specified in section 803(a)(2). They do not include real estate owned and occupied, and to the extent owned and occupied, by the company. If general expenses are assigned to or included in investment expenses, the maximum allowance will not be granted unless it is shown to the satisfaction of the district director that such allowance is justified by a reasonable assignment of actual expenses.

(d) *Taxes and expenses with respect to real estate.* The deduction for taxes and expenses under section 803(g)(3) includes taxes and expenses paid or accrued during the taxable year exclusively upon or with respect to real estate owned by the company and any sum representing taxes imposed upon a shareholder of the company upon his interest as shareholder which is paid or accrued by the company without reimbursement from the shareholder. No deduction shall be allowed, however, for taxes, expenses, and depreciation upon or with respect to any real estate owned by the company except to the extent used for the purpose of producing investment income. See paragraph (c) of this section. As to real estate owned and occupied by the company, see ยง 1.803-5.

(e) *Depreciation.* The deduction allowed for depreciation is, except as provided in section 803(h), identical with that allowed other corporations by section 167. The amount allowed by section 167 in the case of life insurance companies is limited to depreciation sustained on the property used, and to the extent used, for the purpose of producing the income specified in section 803(a)(2).