##### § 1.803-3 Interest paid or accrued. #####

Interest paid or accrued is one of the elements to be used in computing the amount of “required interest” for purposes of determining the reserve interest credit provided in section 805. See § 1.805-1. Interest paid or accrued consists of (a) interest paid or accrued on indebtedness (except indebtedness incurred or continued to purchase or carry tax-exempt securities as set forth in section 803(f)(1)) and (b) amounts in the nature of interest paid or accrued on certain contracts, as provided in section 803(f)(2). Interest on indebtedness includes interest on dividends held on deposit and surrendered during the taxable year but does not include interest paid or accrued on deferred dividends. Life insurance reserves as defined in § 1.803-1 are not indebtedness. Dividends left with the company to accumulate at interest are a debt and not a reserve liability. Amounts in the nature of interest include so-called excess-interest dividends as well as guaranteed interest paid or accrued within the taxable year on insurance or annuity contracts (or contracts arising out of insurance or annuity contracts) which, at the time of payment, do not involve life, health, or accident contingencies. It is immaterial whether the optional mode of settlement specified in the insurance or annuity contract arises from an option exercised by the insured during his or her lifetime or from an option exercised by a beneficiary after the policy has matured, frequently referred to as a supplementary contract not involving life contingencies; for example, a contract to pay the insurance benefit in 10 annual installments. No distinction is made based on the person choosing the method of payment, and the full amount of the interest paid or accrued and not merely the guaranteed interest is considered as interest paid or accrued.