##### § 1211.14 Unattended operation requirements. #####

(a) *General requirements.* (1) A residential garage door operator or system may permit unattended operation to close a garage door, provided the operator system complies with the additional requirements of paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section.

(2) Unattended operation shall not be permitted on one-piece garage doors or swinging garage doors. An operator intended for use with both sectional doors and one-piece or swinging doors that have an unattended operation close feature shall identify that the unattended operation closing feature is only permitted to be enabled when installed with a sectional door by complying with:

(i) The installation instructions stated in § 1211.16(b)(1)(ii);

(ii) The markings specified in § 1211.17(h); and

(iii) The carton markings specified in § 1211.18(m) when the carton references the unattended operation close feature.

(b) *Operator system.* The operator system shall require one or more intentional actions to enable unattended operation, such as setting a power head switch or wall-control switch. For an accessory requiring installation and set-up in order to enable unattended operation, the installation and set-up may be considered satisfying this requirement.

(c) *Alarm signal.* (1) The operator system shall provide an audible and visual alarm signal.

(2) The alarm shall signal for a minimum of 5 seconds before any unattended closing door movement.

(3) The audible signal shall be heard within the confines of a garage. The audio alarm signals for the alarm specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall be generated by devices such as bells, horns, sirens, or buzzers. The signal shall have a frequency in the range of 700 to 3400 Hz, either a cycle of the sound level pulsations of 4 to 5 per second or one continuous tone, a sound level at least 45 dB 10 ft (305 cm) in front of the device over the voltage range of operation.

(4) The visual alarm signal described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall be visible within the confines of a garage using a flashing light of at least 40 watt incandescent or 360 lumens.

(d) *Controls.* (1) During the pre-motion signaling period defined in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, activation of any user door control (e.g., wall control, wireless remote, keypad) shall prevent the pending unattended door movement. Door movement resulting from activation of a user door control is not prohibited.

(2) Upon activation of a user door control during unattended door movement, the door shall stop, and may reverse the door on the closing cycle. On the opening cycle, activation of a user door control shall stop the door but not reverse it.

(3) If an unattended door travelling in the closing direction is stopped and reversed by an entrapment protection device, the operator system shall be permitted one additional unattended operation attempt to close the door.

(4) After two attempts per paragraph (d)(3) of this section, the operator system shall suspend unattended operation. The operator system shall require a renewed, intended input, via user door control (e.g., wall control wireless remote, keypad) other than the unattended activation device, prior to re-enabling unattended operation.

(e) *Entrapment protection.* For a moving door, entrapment protection shall comply with §§ 1211.7 and 1211.8.

[81 FR 20234, Apr. 7, 2016]