##### § 1.1471-3T Identification of payee (temporary). #####

(a) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(a).

(1) through (2) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(a)(1) through (2).

(3) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(a)(3).

(i) through (ii)(B) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(a)(3)(i) through (a)(3)(ii)(B).

(iii) *U.S. intermediary or agent of a foreign person.* A withholding agent that makes a withholdable payment to a U.S. person and has actual knowledge that the person receiving the payment is acting as an intermediary or agent of a foreign person with respect to the payment must treat such foreign person, and not the intermediary or agent, as the payee of such payment. Notwithstanding the previous sentence, a withholding agent that makes a withholdable payment to a U.S. financial institution or a U.S. insurance broker (to the extent such withholdable payment is a payment of premiums) that is acting as an intermediary or agent with respect to the payment on behalf of one or more foreign persons may treat the U.S. financial institution or U.S. insurance broker as the payee if the withholding agent does not have reason to know that the U.S. financial institution or U.S. insurance broker will not comply with its obligations to withhold under sections 1471 and 1472.

(iv) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(a)(3)(iv).

(v) *Disregarded entity or limited branch.* Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (a)(3)(v) through (vii) of this section, a withholding agent that makes a withholdable payment to an entity that is disregarded for U.S. federal tax purposes under § 301.7701-2(c)(2)(i) as an entity separate from its single owner must treat the single owner as the payee. The rules under § 1.1471-3(d)(4) and (e)(3) apply to determine the circumstances under which a withholding agent may treat a payment made to a disregarded entity owned by an FFI as made to a payee that is a participating FFI or registered deemed-compliant FFI, and not as a payment made to a payee that is a nonparticipating FFI. A withholding agent that makes a payment to a limited branch (including an entity disregarded as a separate entity from its owner if such owner is an FFI and the disregarded entity is unable to comply with the terms of an FFI agreement with respect to accounts that it maintains) will be required to treat the payment as being made to a nonparticipating FFI.

(vi) *U.S. branch of certain foreign banks or foreign insurance companies.* A withholdable payment to a U.S. branch of either a participating FFI, registered deemed-compliant FFI, or NFFE is a payment to a U.S. person if the U.S. branch is treated as a U.S. person under § 1.1441-1(b)(2)(iv)(A). In such case, the U.S. branch is treated as the payee. A U.S. branch treated as a U.S. person (as defined in § 1.1471-1(b)(135)), however, is not treated as a U.S. person for purposes of the withholding certificate it may provide to a withholding agent for purposes of chapter 4. Accordingly, a U.S. branch treated as a U.S. person must furnish a withholding certificate on a Form W-8 to certify its chapter 4 status (and not a Form W-9, “Request for Taxpayer Identification Number and Certification”). See also paragraph (f)(6) of this section for the rules under which a withholding agent can presume a payment constitutes income that is effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business. A U.S. branch treated as a U.S. person may not make an election to be withheld upon, as described in section 1471(b)(3) and § 1.1471-2(a)(2)(iii), for purposes of chapter 4. See § 1.1471-4(c)(2)(v) for the rule requiring a U.S. branch that has elected to be treated as a U.S. person to apply the due diligence rules applicable to a U.S. withholding agent in lieu of those otherwise applicable to a participating FFI. See also § 1.1474-1(i)(1) and (2) for the requirement of a U.S. branch to report information regarding certain U.S. owners of owner documented FFIs and passive NFFEs. See § 1.1471-4(d) for rules for when a U.S. branch reports as a U.S. person.

(vii) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(a)(3)(vii).

(b) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(b).

(1) through (2) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(b)(1) through (2).

(3) *Determination of whether the payment is made to a QI, WP, or WT.* A withholding agent may treat the person who receives a payment as a QI, WP, or WT if the withholding agent can reliably associate the payment with a valid Form W-8IMY, as described in paragraph (c)(3)(iii) of this section, that indicates that the person who receives the payment is a QI, WP, or WT, provides the person's QI-EIN, WP-EIN, or WT-EIN, and the person's GIIN, if applicable.

(4) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(b)(4).

(c) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(c).

(1) through (2)(ii) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(c)(1) through (c)(2)(ii).

(3) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(c)(3).

(i) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(c)(3)(i).

(ii) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(c)(3)(ii).

(A) through (B) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(c)(3)(ii)(A) through (B).

(C) The person's entity classification for U.S. tax purposes;

(D) The person's chapter 4 status; and

(E) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(c)(3)(ii)(E).

(iii) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(c)(3)(iii).

(A) *In general.* A withholding certificate of an intermediary, flow-through entity, or U.S. branch of such entity (whether or not such branch is treated as a U.S. person) is valid for purposes of chapter 4 only if it is furnished on a Form W-8IMY, an acceptable substitute form, or such other form as the IRS may prescribe, it is signed under penalties of perjury by a person with authority to sign for the person named on the form, its validity period has not expired, and it contains the following information, statements, and certifications -

(*1*) through (*4*) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(c)(3)(iii)(A)(*1*) through (*4*).

(*5*) A GIIN, in the case of a participating FFI or a registered deemed-compliant FFI (including a U.S. branch of such an entity, whether or not such branch is treated as a U.S. person, and including a QI, WP, or WT that is a participating FFI or registered deemed-compliant FFI), and an EIN in the case of a QI, WP, or WT. Additionally, if a branch (other than a U.S. branch) of a participating FFI or registered deemed-compliant FFI outside of its country of residence acts as an intermediary, a GIIN of such branch must be provided on the withholding certificate. In the case of a U.S. branch, the GIIN provided must be the GIIN assigned to the participating FFI or registered deemed-compliant FFI.

(*6*) through (*12*) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(c)(3)(iii)(A)(*6*) through (*12*).

(B) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(c)(3)(iii)(B).

(*1*) *In general.* A withholding statement forms an integral part of the withholding certificate and the penalties of perjury statement provided on the withholding certificate applies to the withholding statement as well. The withholding statement may be provided in any manner, and in any form, to which the person submitting the form and the withholding agent mutually agree, including electronically. A withholding statement may be provided electronically only if it meets the requirements of § 1.1441-1(e)(3)(iv)(B). The withholding statement must be updated as often as necessary for the withholding agent to meet its reporting and withholding obligations under chapter 4. A withholding agent will be liable for tax, interest, and penalties under § 1.1474-1(a) to the extent it does not follow the presumption rules of paragraph (f) of this section for any payment, or portion thereof, for which a withholding statement is required and the withholding agent does not have a valid withholding statement prior to making a payment. A withholding agent that is making a withholdable payment for which a withholding statement is also required for purposes of chapter 3 may only rely upon the withholding statement if, in addition to providing the information required by paragraph (c)(3)(iii)(B) of this section, the withholding statement also includes all of the information required for purposes of chapter 3 and specifies the chapter 4 status of each payee or pool of payees identified on the withholding statement for purposes of chapter 3.

(*2*) *Special requirements for an FFI withholding statement.*

(*i*) An FFI withholding statement may include either payee-specific information or pooled information that indicates the portion of the payment allocable to a chapter 4 withholding rate pool of U.S. payees, each class of recalcitrant account holders identified in § 1.1471-4(d)(6), or a class of nonparticipating FFIs. If payee-specific information is provided for purposes of chapter 4 it must indicate both the portion of the payment allocated to each payee and each payee's chapter 4 status. A participating FFI that applies the escrow procedures described in § 1.1471-4(b)(6) for dormant accounts must also indicate the portion of the payment allocated to a chapter 4 withholding rate pool of recalcitrant account holders that hold dormant accounts for which the participating FFI (and not the withholding agent) will withhold in escrow. The withholding statement provided by a participating FFI that applies the election to backup withhold under § 1.1471-4(b)(3)(iii) must also indicate the portion of the reportable payment that is a withholdable payment allocated to each recalcitrant account holders subject to backup withholding under section 3406. See section 3406 for when backup withholding is required, including the exception to backup withholding under § 31.3406(g)-1(e). Regardless of whether the FFI withholding statement provides information on a pooled or payee-specific basis, a withholding statement provided by an FFI other than an FFI acting as a WP, WT, or QI with respect to the account must also identify each intermediary or flow-through entity that receives the payment and such entity's chapter 4 status and GIIN, when applicable. An FFI withholding statement must also include any other information that the withholding agent or payor reasonably requests in order to fulfill its obligations under chapter 4, and chapters 3 and 61, if applicable.

(*ii*) An FFI withholding statement provided by a reporting Model 2 FFI or a reporting Model 1 FFI may indicate, with respect to a withholdable payment, that the payment is allocable to a chapter 4 withholding rate pool of U.S. payees, which is comprised of account holders that are not subject to withholding under chapters 3 or 4 or to backup withholding under section 3406 (for example, presumed U.S. non-exempt recipients) and that are, with respect to a reporting Model 2 FFI, the holders of non-consenting U.S. accounts as described in an applicable IGA when the FFI reports the accounts in one of the pools described in § 1.1471-4(d)(6) for the year in which the payment is made; or with respect to a reporting Model 1 FFI, the holders of accounts that have U.S. indicia for which appropriate documentation sufficient to treat the accounts as held by other than specified U.S. persons has not been provided pursuant to an applicable Model 1 IGA and the reporting Model 1 FFI reports the accounts as U.S. reportable accounts pursuant to the applicable Model 1 IGA for the year in which the payment is made.

(*iii*) An FFI withholding statement provided by a participating FFI or registered deemed-compliant FFI that is a non-U.S. payor (a payor other than a U.S. payor as defined in § 1.6049-5(c)(5)) may indicate, with respect to a withholdable payment, that the payment is allocable to a chapter 4 withholding rate pool of U.S. payees (in addition to the U.S. payees described in paragraph (c)(3)(iii)(B)(*2*)(*ii*) of this section), which is comprised of account holders that are not subject to withholding under chapters 3 or 4 or to backup withholding under section 3406 and that are, with respect to a participating FFI (including a reporting Model 2 FFI), account holders that hold U.S. accounts (as defined in § 1.1471-1(b)(134) and an applicable Model 2 IGA) that the FFI reports as U.S. accounts pursuant to § 1.1471-4(d)(3) or (5) for the year in which the payment is made; with respect to a registered deemed-compliant FFI (other than a reporting Model 1 FFI), account holders of U.S. accounts that the FFI reports pursuant to the conditions of its applicable deemed-compliant status under § 1.1471-5(f)(1) for the year in which the payment is made; or with respect to a reporting Model 1 FFI, account holders of U.S. accounts that the reporting Model 1 FFI reports as reportable U.S. accounts pursuant to an applicable Model 1 IGA, and which includes the U.S. TINs of such account holders, for the year in which the payment is made.

(*3*) *Special requirements for a chapter 4 withholding statement.* A chapter 4 withholding statement must contain the name, address, TIN (if any), entity type, and chapter 4 status of each payee, the amount allocated to each payee, a valid withholding certificate or other appropriate documentation sufficient to establish the chapter 4 status of each payee, and each intermediary or flow-through entity that receives the payment on behalf of the payee, in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section, and any other information the withholding agent reasonably requests in order to fulfill its obligations under chapter 4. Notwithstanding the prior sentence, a chapter 4 withholding statement is permitted to provide pooled allocation information with respect to payees that are treated as nonparticipating FFIs. Additionally, if the payment is a reportable amount under chapters 3 or 61, see the provisions of those chapters for any additional information that may be required (including pooled information under the alternative procedures described in § 1.1441-1(e)(3)(iv)(D), if applicable).

(*4*) *Special requirements for an exempt beneficial owner withholding statement.* An exempt beneficial owner withholding statement must include the name, address, TIN (if any), entity type, and chapter 4 status of each exempt beneficial owner on behalf of which the nonparticipating FFI is receiving the payment, the amount of the payment allocable to each exempt beneficial owner, a valid withholding certificate or other documentation sufficient to establish the chapter 4 status of each exempt beneficial owner in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section, and any other information the withholding agent reasonably requests in order to fulfill its obligations under chapter 4. The withholding statement must allocate the remainder of the payment that is not allocated to an exempt beneficial owner to the nonparticipating FFI receiving the payment. With respect to the amount of the payment allocable to each exempt beneficial owner and subject to withholding under chapter 3, see § 1.1441-1(e)(3)(iv).

(C) through (H) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(c)(3)(iii)(C) through (H).

(iv) through (v) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(c)(3)(iv) through (v).

(4) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(c)(4).

(5) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(c)(5).

(i) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(c)(5)(i) through (c)(5)(i)(E).

(ii) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(c)(5)(ii).

(A) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(c)(5)(ii)(A).

(B) *Preexisting obligation documentary evidence.* With respect to a preexisting obligation of an entity, any classification in the withholding agent's records with respect to the payee that was determined based on documentation supplied by the payee (or other person receiving the payment) or a standardized industry coding system and that was recorded by the withholding agent consistent with its normal business practices for AML or another regulatory purpose (other than for tax purposes), to the extent permitted by paragraph (d) of this section and provided there is no U.S. indicia associated with the payee for which appropriate curing documentation has not been obtained as set forth in paragraph (e) of this section; and

(C) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(c)(5)(ii)(C).

(6) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(c)(6).

(i) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(c)(6)(i).

(ii) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(c)(6)(ii).

(A) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(c)(6)(ii)(A).

(B) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(c)(6)(ii)(B).

(*1*) through (*2*) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(c)(6)(ii)(B)(*1*) through (*2*).

(*3*) A beneficial owner withholding certificate that is provided by an entity described in paragraph (c)(6)(ii)(C)(*2*) of this section (other than an entity described in paragraph (c)(6)(ii)(C)(*2*)(*iii*) of this section) and documentary evidence establishing the entity's foreign status when both are provided together;

(*4*) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(c)(6)(ii)(B)(*4*).

(*5*) A withholding certificate, written statement, or documentary evidence furnished by a foreign government, government of a U.S. territory, foreign central bank (including the Bank for International Settlements), international organization, or entity that is wholly owned by any such entities;

(*6*) Documentary evidence that is not generally renewed or amended (such as a certificate of incorporation); and

(*7*) For the validity period of a beneficial owner withholding certificate provided by an entity described in paragraph (c)(6)(ii)(C)(*2*)(*iii*) of this section, see § 1.1441-1(e)(4)(ii).

(C) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(c)(6)(ii)(C).

(*1*) through (*2*) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(c)(6)(ii)(C)(*1*) through (c)(6)(ii)(C)(*2*)(*x*).

(*3*) A withholding certificate or written statement of an owner-documented FFI, but not including the withholding statements, documentary evidence, and withholding certificates of its owners (unless such documentation is permitted indefinite validity under another provision);

(*4*) An owner reporting statement associated with a withholding certificate of an owner-documented FFI, provided the account balance of all accounts held by such owner-documented FFI with the withholding agent does not exceed $1,000,000 on the later of June 30, 2014, or the last day of the calendar year in which the account was opened, and the last day of each subsequent calendar year preceding the payment, applying the aggregation principles of § 1.1471-5(b)(4)(iii), and the owner-documented FFI does not have any contingent beneficiaries or designated classes with unidentified beneficiaries; and

(*5*) A withholding certificate of a passive NFFE or excepted territory NFFE, provided the account balance of all accounts held by such entity with the withholding agent does not exceed $1,000,000 on the later of June 30, 2014, or the last day of the calendar year in which the account was opened, and the last day of each subsequent calendar year preceding the payment, applying the aggregation principles of § 1.1471-5(b)(4)(iii), and the withholding agent does not know or have reason to know that the entity has any contingent beneficiaries or designated classes with unidentified beneficiaries.

(D) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(c)(6)(ii)(D).

(E) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(c)(6)(ii)(E).

(*1*) through (*2*) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(c)(6)(ii)(E)(*1*) through (*2*).

(*3*) *Withholding agent's obligation with respect to a change in circumstances.* A certificate or other documentation becomes invalid on the date that the withholding agent holding the certificate or documentation knows or has reason to know that circumstances affecting the correctness of the certificate or documentation have changed. However, a withholding agent may choose to treat a person as having the same chapter 4 status that it had prior to the change in circumstances until the earlier of 90 days from the date that the certificate or documentation became invalid due to the change in circumstances or the date that a new certificate or new documentation is obtained. See, however, § 1.1441-1(e)(4)(ii)(D) for requirements, including the requirement to withhold under chapters 3 or 61, applicable when a change in circumstances occurs for purposes of chapter 3 and the related grace period allowed under § 1.1441-1(b)(3)(iv). A withholding agent may rely on a certificate without having to inquire into possible changes of circumstances that may affect the validity of the statement, unless it knows or has reason to know that circumstances have changed. A withholding agent may require a new certificate or additional documentation at any time prior to a payment, regardless of whether the withholding agent knows or has reason to know that any information stated on the certificate or documentation has changed.

(iii) through (iii)(B) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(c)(6)(iii) through (c)(6)(iii)(B).

(iv) *Electronic transmission of withholding certificate, written statement, and documentary evidence.* A withholding agent may accept a withholding certificate (including an acceptable substitute form), a written statement, or other such form as the IRS may prescribe, electronically in accordance with the requirements set forth in § 1.1441-1(e)(4)(iv).

(v) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(c)(6)(v).

(A) *In general.* A withholding agent may substitute its own form for an official Form W-8 (or such other official form as the IRS may prescribe). A substitute form will be acceptable if it contains provisions that are substantially similar to those of the official form, it contains the same certifications relevant to the transactions as are contained on the official form and these certifications are clearly set forth, and the substitute form includes a signature-under-penalties-of-perjury statement identical to the one on the official form. The substitute form is acceptable even if it does not contain all of the provisions contained on the official form, so long as it contains those provisions that are relevant to the transaction for which it is furnished. A withholding agent may choose to provide a substitute form that does not include all of the chapter 4 statuses provided on the official version but the substitute form must include any chapter 4 status for which withholding may apply, such as the categories for a nonparticipating FFI or passive NFFE. A withholding agent that uses a substitute form must furnish instructions relevant to the substitute form only to the extent and in the manner specified in the instructions to the official form. A withholding agent may use a substitute form that is written in a language other than English and may accept a form that is filled out in a language other than English, but the withholding agent must make available an English translation of the form and its contents to the IRS upon request. A withholding agent may refuse to accept a certificate (including the official Form W-8) from a person if the certificate provided is not an acceptable substitute form provided by the withholding agent, but only if the withholding agent furnishes the person with an acceptable substitute form within five business days of receipt of an unacceptable form from the person. In that case, the substitute form is acceptable only if it contains a notice that the withholding agent has refused to accept the form submitted by the person and that the person must submit the acceptable form provided by the withholding agent in order for the person to be treated as having furnished the required withholding certificate.

(B) *Non-IRS form for individuals.* A withholding agent may also substitute its own form for an official Form W-8BEN (for individuals), regardless of whether the substitute form is titled a Form W-8. However, in addition to the name and address of the individual that is the payee or beneficial owner, the substitute form must provide all countries in which the individual is resident for tax purposes, country of birth, a tax identification number (if any) for each country of residence, the individual's date of birth, and must contain a signed and dated certification made under penalties of perjury that the information provided on the form is accurate and will be updated by the individual within 30 days of a change in circumstances that causes the form to become incorrect. Notwithstanding the previous sentence, the signed certification provided on a form need not be signed under penalties of perjury if the form is accompanied by documentary evidence that supports the individual's claim of foreign status. Such documentary evidence may be the same documentary evidence that is used to support foreign status in the case of a payee whose account has U.S. indicia as described in paragraph (e) of this section or § 1.1471-4(c)(4)(i)(A). The form may also request other information required for purposes of tax or AML due diligence in the United States or in other countries.

(vi) through (vii) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(c)(6)(vi) through (vii).

(7) through (7)(ii) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(c)(7) through (c)(7)(ii).

(8) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(c)(8).

(i) through (iv) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(c)(8)(i) through (iv).

(v) *Preexisting account.* A withholding agent may rely on documentation furnished by a payee for a preexisting account held at another branch location of the same withholding agent or at a branch location of a member of the expanded affiliated group of the withholding agent if the withholding agent obtains and reviews copies of such documentation supporting the chapter 4 status designated for the payee and the withholding agent has no reason to know that, at the time the documentation is obtained by the withholding agent, the documentation is unreliable or incorrect. For example, the withholding agent may not rely on documentation furnished by a payee for a preexisting account held at another branch location of the same withholding agent or at a branch location of a member of the expanded affiliated group of the withholding agent if, based on information in the withholding agent's account records, the withholding agent has reason to know that such documentation is unreliable or incorrect.

(9) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(c)(9).

(i) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(c)(9)(i).

(ii) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(c)(9)(ii).

(A) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(c)(9)(ii)(A).

(B) The third-party data provider must be in the business of providing credit reports or business reports to customers unrelated to it and must have reviewed all information it has for the entity and verified that such additional information does not conflict with the chapter 4 status claimed by the entity. For purposes of this paragraph (c)(9)(ii)(B), a customer is related to a third-party data provider if they have a relationship with each other that is described in section 267(b).

(C) through (F) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(c)(9)(ii)(C) through (F).

(iii) through (iv)(D) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(c)(9)(iii) through (c)(9)(iv)(D).

(v) *Reliance upon documentation for accounts acquired in merger or bulk acquisition for value.* A withholding agent that acquires an account from a predecessor or transferor in a merger or bulk acquisition of accounts for value is permitted to rely upon valid documentation (or copies of valid documentation) collected by the predecessor or transferor. In addition, a withholding agent that acquires an account in a merger or bulk acquisition of accounts for value, other than a related party transaction, from a U.S. withholding agent, a participating FFI that has completed all due diligence required under its agreement with respect to the accounts transferred, or a reporting Model 1 FFI that has completed all due diligence required pursuant to the applicable Model 1 IGA, may also rely upon the predecessor's or transferor's determination of the chapter 4 status of an account holder for a transition period of the lesser of six months from the date of the merger or until the acquirer knows that the claim of status is inaccurate or a change in circumstances occurs. At the end of the transition period, the acquirer will be permitted to rely upon the predecessor's determination as to the chapter 4 status of the account holder only if the documentation that the acquirer has for the account holder, including documentation obtained from the predecessor or transferor, supports the chapter 4 status claimed. An acquirer that discovers at the end of the transition period that the chapter 4 status assigned by the predecessor or transferor to the account holder was incorrect and, as a result, has not withheld as it would have been required to but for its reliance upon the predecessor's determination, will be required to withhold on payments made after the transition period, if any, to the account holder equal to the amount of tax that should have been withheld during the transition period but for the erroneous classification as to the account holder's status. For purposes of this paragraph (c)(9)(v), a related party transaction is a merger or sale of accounts in which either the acquirer is in the same expanded affiliated group as the predecessor or transferor prior to or after the merger or acquisition or the predecessor or transferor (or shareholders of the predecessor or transferor) obtains a controlling interest in the acquirer or in a newly formed entity created for purposes of the merger or acquisition. See § 1.1471-4(c)(2)(ii)(B) for an additional allowance for a participating FFI to rely upon the determination made by another participating FFI as to the chapter 4 status of an account obtained as part of a merger or bulk acquisition for value.

(d) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(d).

(1) *Reliance on pre-FATCA Form W-8.* To establish a payee's status as a foreign individual, foreign government, government of a U.S. territory, or international organization, a withholding agent may rely upon a pre-FATCA Form W-8 in lieu of obtaining an updated version of the withholding certificate. This reliance is only available in the case of a payee that is an international organization if such payee is described under section 7701(a)(18). To establish the chapter 4 status of a payee that is not a foreign individual, a foreign government, or an international organization, a withholding agent may, for payments made prior to January 1, 2017, rely upon a pre-FATCA Form W-8 in lieu of obtaining an updated version of the withholding certificate if the withholding agent has one or more forms of documentary evidence described in paragraphs (c)(5)(ii), as necessary, to establish the chapter 4 status of the payee and the withholding agent has obtained any additional documentation or information required for the particular chapter 4 status (such as withholding statements, certifications as to owners, or required documentation for underlying owners), as set forth under the specific payee rules in paragraphs (d)(2) through (12) of this section. See paragraph (d)(4)(ii) and (iv) of this section for specific requirements applicable when relying upon a pre-FATCA Form W-8 for a participating FFI or registered deemed-compliant FFI. This paragraph (d)(1) does not apply to nonregistering local banks, FFIs with only low-value accounts, sponsored FFIs, owner-documented FFIs, territory financial institutions that are not the beneficial owners of the payment, foreign central banks (other than a foreign central bank specifically identified as an exempt beneficial owner under a Model 1 IGA or Model 2 IGA), or international organizations not described under section 7701(a)(18).

(2) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(d)(2).

(i) *In general.* A withholding agent must treat a payee as a U.S. person, including a payee that is a foreign branch of a U.S. person (other than a branch that is treated as a QI) or is an FFI that has elected to be treated as a U.S. person for tax purposes under section 953(d), if it has a valid Form W-9 associated with the payee or if it must presume the payee is a U.S. person under the presumption rules set forth in paragraph (f) of this section. Consistent with the presumption rules in paragraph (f)(3) of this section, a withholding agent must treat a payee that has provided a valid Form W-9 as a specified U.S. person unless the Form W-9 contains a certification that the payee is other than a specified U.S. person. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a withholding agent receiving a Form W-9 indicating that the payee is other than a specified U.S. person must treat the payee as a specified U.S. person if the withholding agent knows or has reason to know that the payee's claim that it is other than a specified U.S. person is incorrect. For example, a withholding agent that receives a Form W-9 from a payee that is an individual would be required to treat the payee as a specified U.S. person regardless of whether the Form W-9 indicates that the payee is not a specified U.S. person, because an individual that is a U.S. person is not excepted from the definition of a specified U.S. person.

(ii) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(d)(2)(ii).

(iii) *Preexisting obligations.* As an alternative to applying the rules in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section, a withholding agent that makes a payment with respect to a preexisting obligation may treat a payee as a U.S. person if it has a notation in its files that it has previously reviewed a Form W-9 that established that the payee is a U.S. person and has retained the payee's TIN. A withholding agent, other than a participating FFI or registered deemed-compliant FFI, may also treat a payee of a payment with respect to a preexisting obligation as a U.S. person if it has previously classified the payee as a U.S. person for purposes of chapters 3 or 61 and established (through the documentation or the application of the rules in § 1.6049-4(c)(1)(ii)) that the payee is an exempt recipient for purposes of chapter 61.

(3) through (3)(ii) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(d)(3) through (d)(3)(ii).

(4) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(d)(4).

(i) *In general.* Except as otherwise provided in paragraphs (d)(4)(ii) through (iv) or paragraphs (e)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section, a withholding agent may treat a payee as a participating FFI or registered deemed-compliant FFI only if the withholding agent has a withholding certificate identifying the payee as a participating FFI, registered deemed-compliant FFI, or branch thereof (including an entity that is disregarded as an entity separate from the FFI), and the withholding certificate contains a GIIN for the payee that is verified against the published IRS FFI list in the manner described in paragraph (e)(3) of this section (indicating when a withholding agent may rely upon a GIIN). For payments made prior to January 1, 2016, a registered deemed-compliant FFI that is a sponsored FFI must provide the GIIN of its sponsoring entity on the withholding certificate if the sponsored FFI has not obtained a GIIN, which the withholding agent has verified against the published IRS FFI list in the manner described in paragraph (e)(3) of this section (substituting the term *sponsored FFI* for the term *sponsored direct reporting NFFE*). See paragraph (c)(3)(iii) of this section for additional requirements that apply to a valid withholding certificate provided by a participating FFI or registered deemed-compliant FFI that is a flow-through entity or is acting as an intermediary with respect to the payment, or by a U.S. branch of a participating FFI or registered deemed-compliant FFI (including a U.S. entity that is disregarded as an entity separate from the FFI).

(ii) *Exception for payments made prior to January 1, 2017, with respect to preexisting obligations (transitional).* For payments made prior to January 1, 2017, with respect to a preexisting obligation, a withholding agent may treat a payee as a participating FFI or registered deemed-compliant FFI, or branch thereof (including an entity that is disregarded as an entity separate from the FFI), if the payee has provided the withholding agent with a pre-FATCA Form W-8 and (either orally or in writing) its GIIN and has indicated whether it is a participating FFI or a registered deemed-compliant FFI (or whether such branch or disregarded entity is treated as a participating FFI or a registered deemed-compliant FFI), and the withholding agent has verified the GIIN of the FFI, branch, or disregarded entity, as the context requires, in the manner described in paragraph (e)(3) of this section.

(iii) *Exception for offshore obligations.* A withholding agent that makes a payment, other than a payment of U.S. source FDAP income, with respect to an offshore obligation may treat a payee as a participating FFI or registered deemed-compliant FFI, or branch thereof (including an entity that is disregarded as an entity separate from the FFI), if the payee provides the withholding agent with its GIIN and states whether the payee is a participating FFI or a registered deemed-compliant FFI, and the withholding agent verifies the GIIN in the manner described in paragraph (e)(3) of this section. A withholding agent that makes a payment of U.S. source FDAP income with respect to an offshore obligation may treat the payee as a participating FFI or registered deemed-compliant FFI, or branch thereof (including an entity that is disregarded as an entity separate from the FFI) if -

(A) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(d)(4)(iii)(A).

(*1*) A written statement that contains the payee's GIIN, states that the payee is the beneficial owner of the payment, and indicates whether the payee is treated as a participating FFI or a registered deemed-compliant FFI, as appropriate; and

(*2*) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(d)(4)(iii)(A)(*2*).

(B) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(d)(4)(iii)(B).

(iv) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(d)(4)(iv).

(A) For payments made prior to January 1, 2015, a withholding agent may treat a payee that is an FFI or branch of an FFI (including an entity that is disregarded as an entity separate from the FFI) as a reporting Model 1 FFI if it receives a withholding certificate from the payee indicating that the payee is a reporting Model 1 FFI and the country in which the payee is a reporting Model 1 FFI, regardless of whether the certificate contains a GIIN for the payee.

(B) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(d)(4)(iv)(B).

(C) For payments made prior to January 1, 2015, with respect to an offshore obligation, a withholding agent may treat a payee as a reporting Model 1 FFI if the payee informs the withholding agent that the payee is a reporting Model 1 FFI and provides the country in which the payee is a reporting Model 1 FFI. In the case of a payment of U.S. source FDAP income, such payee must also provide a written statement that it is the beneficial owner and documentary evidence supporting the payee's claim of foreign status (as described in paragraph (c)(5)(i) of this section).

(D) For payments made on or after January 1, 2015, that do not constitute U.S. source FDAP income, the withholding agent may continue to treat a payee as a reporting Model 1 FFI if the payee provides the withholding agent with its GIIN, either orally or in writing, and the withholding agent verifies the GIIN in the manner described in paragraph (e)(3) of this section.

(v) *Reason to know.* Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (d)(4), a withholding certificate or written statement pursuant to which the payee claims a status as a participating FFI or registered deemed-compliant FFI but does not provide the payee's GIIN or provides a GIIN that does not appear on the current published IRS FFI list will be invalid for purposes of chapter 4 beginning on the date that is 90 days after the date that the claim is made by the payee. The payee will be treated as an undocumented payee beginning on the date that the form is invalid, and will be subject to withholding on payments made on or after that date until valid documentation (which includes a confirmed GIIN under paragraph (e)(3)(i) of this section) is provided. A withholding agent that has withheld as required in the previous sentence may apply reimbursement or set-off procedures, as described in § 1.1474-2(a), if it is later determined that the payee appeared on the IRS FFI list as a participating FFI or registered deemed-compliant FFI at the time of payment.

(5) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(d)(5).

(i) *In general.* Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (d)(5), a withholding agent may treat a payee as a certified deemed-compliant FFI, other than a sponsored, closely held investment vehicle, if the withholding agent has a withholding certificate that identifies the payee as a certified deemed-compliant FFI, and the withholding certificate contains a certification by the payee that it meets the requirements to qualify as the type of certified deemed-compliant FFI identified on the withholding certificate. See paragraph (c)(3)(iii) of this section for additional requirements that apply to a valid withholding certificate provided by a certified deemed-compliant FFI that is a flow-through entity or is acting as an intermediary with respect to the payment, or by a U.S. branch of a certified deemed-compliant FFI.

(ii) *Sponsored, closely held investment vehicles* - (A) *In general.* A withholding agent may treat a payee as a sponsored, closely held investment vehicle described in § 1.1471-5(f)(2)(iii) if the withholding agent can reliably associate the payment with a withholding certificate that identifies the payee as a sponsored, closely held investment vehicle and includes the sponsoring entity's GIIN, which the withholding agent has verified against the published IRS FFI list in the manner described in paragraph (e)(3) of this section. In addition to the standards of knowledge rules indicated in paragraph (e) of this section, a withholding agent will have reason to know that the payee is not a sponsored, closely held investment vehicle described in § 1.1471-5(f)(2)(iii) if its AML due diligence indicates that the payee has in excess of 20 individual investors that own direct and/or indirect interests in the payee. See paragraph (c)(3)(iii) of this section for additional requirements that apply to a valid withholding certificate provided by a sponsored, closely held investment vehicle that is a flow-through entity or is acting as an intermediary with respect to the payment, or by a U.S. branch of such vehicle.

(B) *Offshore obligations.* A withholding agent that makes a payment with respect to an offshore obligation may treat a payee as a sponsored, closely held investment vehicle if it obtains a written statement that indicates that the payee is a sponsored, closely held investment vehicle, and provides the sponsoring entity's GIIN, which the withholding agent has verified in the manner described in paragraph (e)(3) of this section. In the case of a payment of U.S. source FDAP income, the written statement must also indicate that the payee is the beneficial owner and must be supplemented with documentary evidence supporting the payee's claim of foreign status (as described in paragraph (c)(5)(i) of this section).

(iii) *Investment advisors and investment managers.*

(A) *In general.* A withholding agent may treat a payee as an investment advisor and investment manager described in § 1.1471-5(f)(2)(v) if the withholding agent can reliably associate the payment with a withholding certificate that identifies the payee as an investment advisor and investment manager. In addition to the standards of knowledge rules indicated in paragraph (e) of this section, a withholding agent will have reason to know that the payee is not an investment advisor and investment manager described in § 1.1471-5(f)(2)(v) if its AML due diligence documentation indicates that the payee has financial accounts.

(B) *Offshore obligations.* A withholding agent that makes a payment with respect to an offshore obligation may treat a payee as an investment advisor and investment manager described in § 1.1471-5(f)(2)(v) if it obtains a written statement that indicates that the payee is an investment advisor and investment manager. In the case of a payment of U.S. source FDAP income, the written statement must also indicate that the payee is the beneficial owner and must be supplemented with documentary evidence supporting the payee's claim of foreign status (as described in paragraph (c)(5)(i) of this section).

(6) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(d)(6).

(i) through (vi) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(d)(6)(i) through (vi).

(vii) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(d)(6)(vii).

(A) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(d)(6)(vii)(A).

(*1*) The payment is made with respect to an offshore obligation that has a balance or value not exceeding $1,000,000 on the later of June 30, 2014, or the last day of the calendar year in which the account was opened, and the last day of each subsequent year preceding the payment, applying the aggregation principles of § 1.1471-5(b)(4);

(*2*) through (*5*) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(d)(6)(vii)(A)(*2*) through (*5*).

(B) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(d)(6)(vii)(B).

(7) through (10)(iii) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(d)(7) through (d)(10)(iii).

(11) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(d)(11).

(i) through (vii)(B)(*3*) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(d)(11)(i) through (d)(11)(vii)(B)(*3*).

(viii) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(d)(11)(viii).

(A) *Exception for payments made prior to January 1, 2017, with respect to preexisting obligations of $1,000,000 or less (transitional).* A withholding agent that makes a payment prior to January 1, 2017, with respect to a preexisting obligation with a balance or value not exceeding $1,000,000 on June 30, 2014, and December 31, 2015, applying the aggregation principles of § 1.1471-5(b)(4)(iii), may treat a payee as an excepted territory NFFE described in § 1.1472-1(c)(1)(iii) if the withholding agent -

(*1*) through (*3*) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(d)(11)(viii)(A)(*1*) through (*3*).

(B) through (B)(*2*) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(d)(11)(viii)(B) through (d)(11)(viii)(B)(*2*).

(C) *Exception for preexisting offshore obligations of $1,000,000 or less.* A withholding agent that makes a payment with respect to an offshore obligation that is also a preexisting obligation with a balance or value not exceeding $1,000,000 on June 30, 2014 (or the effective date of the FFI agreement for a withholding agent that is a participating FFI) and the last day of each subsequent calendar year preceding the payment, applying the aggregation principles of § 1.1471-5(b)(4)(iii), may rely upon its review conducted for AML due diligence purposes to determine whether the owners of the payee are bona fide residents of the U.S. territory in which the payee is organized, in lieu of obtaining a written statement or documentary evidence described in paragraph (d)(11)(viii)(B) of this section. The preceding sentence applies only if the withholding agent is subject, with respect to such account, to the laws of a FATF-compliant jurisdiction and has identified the residence of the owners. The withholding agent relying upon this paragraph (d)(11)(viii)(C) must still obtain a written statement, documentary evidence (as provided in paragraph (d)(11)(viii)(B) of this section), or preexisting account documentary evidence (as described in paragraph (c)(5)(ii)(B) of this section) establishing that the payee is an entity other than a depository institution, custodial institution, or specified insurance company organized in a U.S. territory.

(ix) through (ix)(C) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(d)(11)(ix) through (d)(11)(ix)(C).

(x) *Identifying a direct reporting NFFE* - (A) *In general.* A withholding agent may treat a payment as having been made to a direct reporting NFFE if it has a withholding certificate that identifies the payee as a direct reporting NFFE and the withholding certificate contains a GIIN for the payee that is verified against the published IRS FFI list in the manner described in paragraph (e)(3)(iii) of this section (indicating when a withholding agent may rely upon a GIIN).

(B) *Exception for offshore obligations.* A withholding agent that makes a payment with respect to an offshore obligation may treat the payment as made to a direct reporting NFFE if the withholding agent has -

(*1*)(*i*) General documentary evidence (as described in paragraph (c)(5)(ii)(A) of this section) for the payee providing sufficient information to determine that the payee is a foreign entity that is not a financial institution; or

(*ii*) A written statement that the payee is a foreign entity that is not a financial institution and, for a payment of U.S. source FDAP income, documentary evidence supporting the payee's claim of foreign status (as described in paragraph (c)(5)(i) of this section), and

(*2*) Received (either orally or in writing) a GIIN from the direct reporting NFFE and has verified the GIIN in the manner described in paragraph (e)(3)(iii) of this section.

(C) *Special rule for preexisting offshore obligations.* A withholding agent that makes a payment with respect to an offshore obligation that is also a preexisting obligation may treat the payee as a direct reporting NFFE if the withholding agent has preexisting account documentary evidence (as described in paragraph (c)(5)(ii)(B) of this section) providing sufficient information to determine that the payee is a foreign entity that is not a financial institution and it has received (either orally or in writing) a GIIN from the direct reporting NFFE and has verified the GIIN in the manner described in paragraph (e)(3)(iii) of this section.

(xi) *Identifying a sponsored direct reporting NFFE* - (A) *In general.* A withholding agent may treat a payment as having been made to a sponsored direct reporting NFFE if it has a withholding certificate that identifies the payee as a sponsored direct reporting NFFE and the withholding certificate includes the sponsored direct reporting NFFE's GIIN, which the withholding agent has verified against the published IRS FFI list in the manner described in paragraph (e)(3)(iv) of this section (indicating when a withholding agent may rely upon a GIIN). For payments prior to January 1, 2016, a sponsored direct reporting NFFE may provide the GIIN of its sponsoring entity on the withholding certificate if the sponsored direct reporting NFFE has not obtained a GIIN.

(B) *Exception for offshore obligations.* A withholding agent that makes a payment with respect to an offshore obligation may treat the payment as made to a sponsored direct reporting NFFE if the withholding agent has -

(*1*) A written statement that the payee is a foreign entity that is a sponsored direct reporting NFFE and, for a payment of U.S. source FDAP income, documentary evidence supporting the payee's claim of foreign status (as described in paragraph (c)(5)(i) of this section), and

(*2*) Received (either orally or in writing) the GIIN of the sponsored direct reporting NFFE and has verified the GIIN in the manner described in paragraph (e)(3)(iv) of this section. For payments prior to January 1, 2016, such requirement may be fulfilled by receiving (either orally or in writing) the GIIN of the sponsoring entity to the extent that the sponsored direct reporting NFFE has not obtained a GIIN.

(xii) *Identification of excepted inter-affiliate FFI.*

(A) *In general.* A participating FFI may treat a payee as an excepted inter-affiliate FFI described in § 1.1471-5(e)(5)(iv) if it has obtained a withholding certificate identifying the payee as such an entity.

(B) *Offshore obligations.* A participating FFI that makes a payment with respect to an offshore obligation may treat the payment as made to an excepted inter-affiliate FFI described in § 1.1471-5(e)(5)(iv) if the participating FFI obtains a written statement in which the payee certifies that it is a foreign entity operating as an excepted inter-affiliate FFI and that it is a member of an expanded affiliated group of participating FFIs or registered deemed-compliant FFIs. In the case of a payment of U.S. source FDAP income, the written statement must also indicate that the payee is the beneficial owner and must be supplemented with documentary evidence supporting the payee's claim of foreign status (as described in paragraph (c)(5)(i) of this section).

(C) *Reason to know.* A participating FFI has reason to know that an entity is not an excepted inter-affiliate FFI if it makes any payments (other than a payment of bank deposit interest) to such entity.

(12) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(d)(12).

(i) through (ii) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(d)(12)(i) through (ii).

(iii) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(d)(12)(iii).

(A) *In general.* A passive NFFE will be required to provide to the withholding agent either a written certification (contained on a withholding certificate or in a written statement) that it does not have any substantial U.S. owners or the name, address, and TIN of each substantial U.S. owner of the NFFE, to avoid being withheld upon under § 1.1472-1(b).

(B) *Exception for preexisting obligations of $1,000,000 or less (transitional).* A withholding agent that makes a payment prior to January 1, 2017, with respect to a preexisting obligation with a balance or value not exceeding $1,000,000 on June 30, 2014, and December 31, 2015, applying the aggregation principles of § 1.1471-5(b)(4)(iii), may rely upon its review conducted for AML due diligence purposes to identify any substantial U.S. owners of the payee in lieu of obtaining the certification or information required in paragraph (d)(12)(iii)(A) of this section if the withholding agent is subject, with respect to such obligation, to the laws of a FATF-compliant jurisdiction and has identified the residence of any controlling persons (within the meaning of the withholding agent's AML due diligence rules). A withholding agent that makes a payment with respect to an offshore obligation that is also a preexisting obligation with a balance or value not exceeding $1,000,000 on June 30, 2014, (or the effective date of the FFI agreement for a withholding agent that is a participating FFI) and the last day of each subsequent calendar year preceding the payment, applying the aggregation principles of § 1.1471-5(b)(4)(iii), may rely upon its review conducted for AML due diligence purposes to identify any substantial U.S. owners of the payee in lieu of obtaining the certification or information required in paragraph (d)(12)(iii)(A) of this section if the withholding agent is subject, with respect to such obligation, to the laws of a FATF-compliant jurisdiction and has identified the residence of any controlling persons (within the meaning of the withholding agent's AML due diligence rules).

(e) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(e).

(1) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(e)(1).

(2) *Notification by the IRS.* A withholding agent that has received notification by the IRS that a claim of status as a U.S. person, a participating FFI, a deemed-compliant FFI, or other entity entitled to a reduced rate of withholding under section 1471 or 1472 is incorrect knows that such a claim is incorrect beginning on the date that is 30 days after the date the notice is received.

(3) *GIIN verification.*

(i) *In general.* A withholding agent that has received a payee's claim of status as a participating FFI or registered deemed-compliant FFI, and that is required under paragraph (d)(4) of this section to confirm that the FFI or branch thereof (including an entity that is disregarded as an entity separate from the FFI) claiming status as a participating FFI or registered deemed-compliant FFI has a GIIN that appears on the published IRS FFI list, has reason to know that such payee is not such a financial institution if the payee's name (including a name reasonably similar to the name the withholding agent has on file for the payee) and GIIN do not appear on the most recently published IRS FFI list within 90 days of the date that the claim is made. For purposes of this paragraph (e)(3)(i), the GIIN that the withholding agent must confirm is, with respect to a payee that is a participating FFI or registered deemed-compliant FFI, the GIIN assigned to the FFI identifying its country of residence for tax purposes (or place of organization if the FFI has no country of residence) or, with respect to a payment that is made to a branch of, or an entity that is disregarded as an entity separate from, a participating FFI or registered deemed-compliant FFI located outside of the FFI's country of residence or organization, the GIIN assigned to the FFI identifying the country in which the branch or disregarded entity receiving the payment is located. The withholding agent will have reason to know that a withholdable payment is made to a limited branch (including a disregarded entity) of a participating or registered deemed-compliant FFI when it is directed to make the payment to an address in a jurisdiction other than that of the participating FFI or registered deemed-compliant FFI (or branch of, or disregarded entity wholly owned by, such FFI) that is identified as the FFI (or branch of, or disregarded entity wholly owned by, such FFI) that is supposed to receive the payment and for which the FFI's GIIN is not confirmed as described in the preceding sentence. For example, if a participating FFI has identified Branch A, located in Jurisdiction A, as its branch to receive withholdable payments on a withholding certificate described in § 1.1471-3(e)(3)(ii), but subsequently directs the withholding agent to make the payment to an address of the FFI in Jurisdiction B, then the withholding agent will have reason to know that the payment is made to a limited branch, unless the withholding agent obtains documentation to treat the payment to the address in Jurisdiction B as made to a payee that is a participating FFI or deemed-compliant FFI. An FFI whose registration with the IRS as a participating FFI or a registered deemed-compliant FFI is in process but has not yet received a GIIN may provide a withholding agent with a Form W-8 claiming the chapter 4 status it applied for and writing “applied for” in the box for the GIIN. In such case, the withholding agent will have 90 days from the date it receives the Form W-8 to obtain a GIIN and to verify the accuracy of the GIIN against the published IRS FFI list before it has reason to know that the payee is not a participating FFI or registered deemed-compliant FFI. If an FFI is removed from the published IRS FFI list, the withholding agent knows that such FFI is not a participating FFI or registered deemed-compliant FFI on the earlier of the date that the withholding agent discovers that the FFI has been removed from the list or the date that is one year from the date the FFI's GIIN was actually removed from the list.

(ii) *Special rules for reporting Model 1 FFIs.* Prior to January 1, 2015, a withholding agent that receives an FFI's claim of status as a reporting Model 1 FFI will not be required to confirm that the FFI has a GIIN that appears on the published IRS FFI list. A withholding agent has reason to know that the FFI is not a reporting Model 1 FFI if the withholding agent does not have a permanent residence address for the FFI, or an address of the relevant branch of the FFI, located in the country in which the FFI claims to be a reporting Model 1 FFI, or the withholding agent is making a payment to a branch of the FFI at an address in a country that does not have in effect a Model 1 IGA.

(iii) *Special rules for direct reporting NFFEs.* A withholding agent that has received a payee's claim of status as a direct reporting NFFE and that is required under paragraph (d)(11)(x) of this section to confirm that the entity claiming status as a direct reporting NFFE has a GIIN that appears on the published IRS FFI list, has reason to know that such payee is not such a NFFE if the payee's name (including a name reasonably similar to the name the withholding agent has on file for the payee) and GIIN do not appear on the most recently published IRS FFI list within 90 days of the date that the claim is made. A payee whose registration with the IRS as a direct reporting NFFE is in process but has not yet received a GIIN may provide a withholding agent with a Form W-8 claiming the chapter 4 status it applied for and writing “applied for” in the box for the GIIN. In such case, the withholding agent will have 90 days from the date it receives the Form W-8 to verify the accuracy of the GIIN against the published IRS FFI list before it has reason to know that the payee is not a direct reporting NFFE. If a direct reporting NFFE is removed from the published IRS FFI list, the withholding agent knows that such NFFE is not a direct reporting NFFE on the earlier of the date that the withholding agent discovers that the NFFE has been removed from the list or the date that is one year from the date the NFFE's GIIN was actually removed from the list.

(iv) *Special rules for sponsored direct reporting NFFEs and sponsoring entities* - (A) *Sponsored direct reporting NFFEs.* A withholding agent that has received a payee's claim of status as a sponsored direct reporting NFFE and that is required under paragraph (d)(11)(xi) of this section to confirm that the entity claiming status as a sponsored direct reporting NFFE has a GIIN that appears on the published IRS FFI list, has reason to know that such payee is not such a NFFE if its name (including a name reasonably similar to the name the withholding agent has on file for the payee) and GIIN do not appear on the most recently published IRS FFI list within 90 days of the date that the claim is made. A sponsored direct reporting NFFE whose registration with the IRS as a sponsored direct reporting NFFE is in process but has not yet received a GIIN may provide a withholding agent with a Form W-8 claiming the chapter 4 status it applied for and writing “applied for” in the box for the GIIN. In such case, the withholding agent will have 90 days from the date it receives the Form W-8 to verify the accuracy of the GIIN against the published IRS FFI list before it has reason to know that the payee is not a sponsored direct reporting NFFE. If a sponsored direct reporting NFFE is removed from the published IRS FFI list, the withholding agent knows that such NFFE is not a sponsored direct reporting NFFE on the earlier of the date that the withholding agent discovers that the sponsored entity has been removed from the list or the date that is one year from the date the sponsored entity's GIIN was actually removed from the list.

(B) *Sponsoring entities (transitional rule).* For payments made prior to January 1, 2016, a withholding agent that has received a payee's claim of status as a sponsored direct reporting NFFE has reason to know that such payee is not such a NFFE if the name of its sponsoring entity (including a name reasonably similar to the name the withholding agent has on file for the sponsoring entity) and the GIIN of its sponsoring entity do not appear on the most recently published IRS FFI list within 90 days of the date that the claim is made. A sponsoring entity whose registration with the IRS is in process but has not yet received a GIIN may provide a withholding agent with a Form W-8 claiming the chapter 4 status it applied for and writing “applied for” in the box for the GIIN. In such case, the withholding agent will have 90 days from the date it receives the Form W-8 to verify the accuracy of the GIIN against the published IRS FFI list before it has reason to know that the payee is not a sponsored direct reporting NFFE. If the sponsoring entity of the NFFE is removed from the published IRS FFI list, the withholding agent knows that such NFFE is not a sponsored direct reporting NFFE on the earlier of the date that the withholding agent discovers that the sponsoring entity has been removed from the list or the date that is one year from the date the sponsoring entity's GIIN was actually removed from the list.

(4) *Reason to know.* A withholding agent has reason to know that a claim of chapter 4 status is unreliable or incorrect if its knowledge of relevant facts or statements contained in the withholding certificate or other documentation is such that a reasonably prudent person in the position of the withholding agent would question the claim being made. For an obligation other than a preexisting obligation, a withholding agent has reason to know that a person's claim of chapter 4 status is unreliable or incorrect if any information contained in its account opening files or other customer account files, including documentation collected for AML due diligence purposes, conflicts with the chapter 4 status being claimed. A withholding agent will not, however, have reason to know that a person's claim of chapter 4 status is unreliable or incorrect based on documentation collected for AML due diligence purposes until the date that is 30 days after the obligation is created. In addition to the specific standards of knowledge set forth in this paragraph (e) regarding a person's claim of chapter 4 status, a withholding agent is also required to apply any specific standards of knowledge applicable to the chapter 4 status claimed as set forth in paragraph (d) of this section. A withholding agent that has obtained documentation to reliably associate a payment to a foreign person under paragraph (c) of this section has reason to know that the person's claim of foreign status is unreliable or incorrect only to the extent provided in this paragraph (e)(4). See also § 1.1441-1(e)(4)(ii)(D) for requirements that apply when a change in circumstances occurs for purposes of chapter 3 and the related grace period allowed under § 1.1441-1(b)(3)(iv). The limits on reason to know for multiple obligations held by the same person set forth in § 1.1441-7(b)(11) shall apply by substituting the term *chapter 4 status* for the term *foreign status.* See § 1.1471-3(e)(4)(vii) for the limits on reason to know with respect to a preexisting obligation.

(i) *Reason to know regarding an entity's chapter 4 status.* A withholding agent has reason to know that a withholding certificate, written statement, or documentary evidence provided by or on behalf of an entity is unreliable or incorrect if there is information on the face of the documentation or in the withholding agent's account files that conflicts with the entity's claim regarding its chapter 4 status. For example, a withholding agent has reason to know that an entity's claim that it is an excepted NFFE is unreliable or incorrect if the withholding agent has obtained a financial statement or credit report for AML purposes that indicates that the entity is engaged in business as a financial institution. See also paragraph (e)(4) of this section for the 30-day period before a withholding agent has reason to know a claim is unreliable or incorrect based on AML information. Further, a withholding agent that has classified an entity as engaged in a particular type of business based on its records, such as through the use of a standardized industry coding system, has reason to know that the chapter 4 status claimed by the entity is unreliable or incorrect if the entity's claim conflicts with the withholding agent's classification of the entity's business type.

(ii) *Reason to know applicable to withholding certificates* - (A) *In general.* A withholding agent has reason to know that a withholding certificate provided by a person is unreliable or incorrect if the withholding certificate is incomplete with respect to any item on the certificate that is relevant to the claims made by the person, the withholding certificate contains any information that is inconsistent with the person's claim, the withholding agent has other account information that is inconsistent with the person's claim, or the withholding certificate lacks information necessary to establish entitlement to an exemption from withholding for chapter 4 purposes. Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (e)(4)(ii)(A), a withholding agent that is a financial institution or other entity described in § 1.1441-7(b)(3) and that has obtained a withholding certificate to reliably associate a payment to a foreign person under paragraph (c) of this section has reason to know that the person's claim of foreign status is unreliable or incorrect only if there are U.S. indicia, as described in § 1.1441-7(b)(5), associated with the person and for which appropriate documentation sufficient to cure the U.S. indicia has not been obtained in accordance with § 1.1441-7(b) within 90 days of when the U.S. indicia was first identified by the withholding agent. See also § 1.1441-1(e)(4)(ii)(D) for requirements that apply when a change in circumstances occurs for purposes of chapter 3 and the related grace period allowed under § 1.1441-1(b)(3)(iv). A withholding agent that relies on an agent to review and maintain a withholding certificate is considered to know or have reason to know the facts within the knowledge of the agent.

(B) *Withholding certificate provided by an FFI.* A withholding agent that obtains a withholding certificate to reliably associate a payment to a participating FFI, a registered deemed-compliant FFI, a sponsoring entity, or a sponsored FFI does not need to apply the standards of knowledge described in § 1.1441-7(b)(5) if it has confirmed the FFI's GIIN on the current published IRS FFI list, in the manner described under paragraph (e)(3) of this section, within 90 days of receipt of the withholding certificate.

(iii) *Reason to know applicable to written statements.* A withholding agent must apply the standards of knowledge applicable to withholding certificates, as set forth in paragraph (e)(4)(ii) of this section, to determine whether it has reason to know that a written statement is unreliable or incorrect in terms of establishing a person's claim of foreign status. The rules under paragraph (e)(4)(ii) shall be applied by substituting the term *written statement* for *withholding certificate.*

(iv) *Reason to know applicable to documentary evidence* - (A) *In general.* A withholding agent may not treat documentary evidence provided by a person as valid if the documentary evidence does not reasonably establish the identity of the person presenting the documentary evidence. For example, documentary evidence is not valid if it is provided in person by an individual and the photograph or signature on the documentary evidence does not match the appearance or signature of the person presenting the document. A withholding agent may not treat documentary evidence as valid if the documentary evidence contains information that is inconsistent with the person's claim as to its chapter 4 status, the withholding agent has other account information that is inconsistent with the person's chapter 4 status, or the documentary evidence lacks information necessary to establish the person's chapter 4 status. Additionally, a withholding agent that is a financial institution under § 1.1471-5(e), or other entity as described in § 1.1441-7(b)(3) that has obtained documentary evidence to reliably associate a payment to a foreign person under paragraph (c) of this section has reason to know that the person's claim of foreign status is unreliable or incorrect only if there are U.S. indicia, as described in § 1.1441-7(b)(8), associated with the person and appropriate documentation sufficient to cure the U.S. indicia has not been obtained in accordance with § 1.1441-7(b) within 90 days of when the U.S. indicia was first identified by the withholding agent. See also § 1.1441-1(e)(4)(ii)(D) for requirements when a change in circumstances occurs for purposes of chapter 3 and the related grace period allowed under § 1.1441-1(b)(3)(iv).

(B) *Standards of knowledge applicable to certain types of documentary evidence* - (*1*) *Financial statement.* A withholding agent that obtains a financial statement for purposes of establishing that a foreign payee meets a certain asset threshold has reason to know that the chapter 4 status claimed is unreliable or incorrect only if the total assets shown on the financial statement for the payee, and if relevant the payee's expanded affiliated group, are not within the permissible thresholds, or the footnotes to the financial statement indicate that the payee is not a foreign entity or is not a type of FFI eligible for the chapter 4 status claimed. A withholding agent that obtains a financial statement for purposes of establishing that the payee is an active NFFE will be required to review the balance sheet and income statement to determine whether the payee meets the income and asset thresholds set forth in § 1.1472-1(c)(1)(iv) and the footnotes of the financial statement for an indication that the payee is not a foreign entity or is a financial institution. A withholding agent that obtains a financial statement for purposes of establishing a chapter 4 status for a payee that does not require the payee to meet an asset or income threshold will be required to review only the footnotes to the financial statement to determine whether the financial statement supports the claim of chapter 4 status. A withholding agent that is not relying upon a financial statement to establish the chapter 4 status of the payee (for example because it has other documentation that establishes the payee's chapter 4 status) is not required to independently evaluate the financial statement solely because the withholding agent also has collected the financial statement in the course of its account opening or other procedures.

(*2*) *Organizational documents.* A withholding agent that obtains organizational documents for a payee solely for the purpose of supporting the chapter 4 status claimed by the entity will only be required to review the document sufficiently to establish that the entity is a foreign person and that the purposes for which the entity was formed and its basic activities appear to be of a type consistent with the chapter 4 status claimed, unless otherwise specified in paragraph (d) of this section. A withholding agent that obtains organizational documents for the purpose of establishing that an entity has a particular chapter 4 status will only be required to review the document to the extent needed to establish that the entity is a foreign person, that the requirements applicable to the particular chapter 4 status are met, and that the document was executed, but will not be required to review the remainder of the document.

(v) *Specific standards of knowledge applicable when only documentary evidence is a code or classification described in paragraph (c)(5)(ii)(B) of this section.* A withholding agent may not rely upon a classification described in paragraph (c)(5)(ii)(B) of this section or a standardized industry coding system to treat an entity as having a foreign status if there are U.S. indicia described in paragraph (e)(4)(v)(A) of this section associated with the entity, unless such U.S. indicia are cured in the manner set forth in paragraph (e)(4)(v)(B) of this section.

(A) through (A)(*7*) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(e)(4)(v)(A) through (e)(4)(v)(A)(*7*).

(B) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(e)(4)(v)(B).

(*1*) If there are U.S. indicia described in paragraphs (e)(4)(v)(A)(*1*) through (*4*) of this section associated with the entity, the withholding agent may treat the entity as a foreign person only if the withholding agent obtains a withholding certificate for the entity and one form of documentary evidence, described in paragraph (c)(5) of this section, that establishes the entity's status as a foreign person (such as a certificate of incorporation).

(*2*) If there are U.S. indicia described in paragraphs (e)(4)(v)(A)(*1*) through (*4*) of this section associated with the entity and the withholding agent is making a payment with respect to an offshore obligation, the withholding agent may also treat the entity as a foreign person if the withholding agent obtains a withholding certificate for the entity and the withholding agent treats the entity as foreign for purposes of foreign tax reporting. A withholding agent will treat an entity as foreign for purposes of foreign tax reporting only if the withholding agent classifies the entity as a resident of the country in which the obligation is maintained, the withholding agent is required to report a payment made to the entity annually on a tax information statement that is filed with the tax authority of the country in which the account is maintained as part of that country's resident reporting requirements, and that country has a tax information exchange agreement or income tax treaty in effect with the United States.

(*3*) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(e)(4)(v)(B)(*3*).

(vi) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(e)(4)(vi).

(A) through (A)(*2*) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(e)(4)(vi)(A) through (e)(4)(vi)(A)(*2*).

(B) *Limits on reason to know with respect to documentation received from participating FFIs and registered deemed-compliant FFIs that are intermediaries or flow-through entities.* A withholding agent that receives documentation from a participating FFI or registered deemed-compliant FFI that is not the payee must apply the requirements of paragraph (e)(4)(vi)(A) of this section, except that the withholding agent may rely upon the chapter 4 status provided by the participating FFI or registered deemed-compliant FFI in the withholding statement unless the withholding agent has information that conflicts with the chapter 4 status provided. If underlying documentation is provided for the payee and information in the documentation or in the withholding agent's records conflicts with the chapter 4 status claimed, the withholding agent has reason to know that the chapter 4 status claimed is unreliable or incorrect. A withholding agent is not, however, required to verify information contained in documentation provided by an intermediary or flow-through entity that is a participating FFI or registered deemed-compliant FFI that is not facially incorrect and is not required to obtain supporting documentation for the payee in addition to a withholding certificate unless the withholding agent obtains such documentation for purposes of chapters 3 or 61 or unless the withholding agent knows that the review conducted by the participating FFI or registered deemed-compliant FFI for purposes of chapter 4 was not adequate. For example, a withholding agent that receives a withholding statement from a participating FFI that is an intermediary stating that the payee is a registered deemed-compliant FFI is only required to determine that any withholding certificate provided for the payee contains a GIIN and that the GIIN does not appear to be facially invalid (for example, because it does not contain the correct amount of digits), but is not subject to the requirements set forth in paragraph (e)(3) of this section. Similarly, a withholding agent that receives from a participating FFI that is a partnership a withholding statement claiming that the payee is an active NFFE has reason to know that the claim is unreliable or incorrect if it receives a withholding statement that contains a U.S. address for the payee unless the partnership also provides a copy of documentation sufficient to cure the U.S. indicia in the manner set forth in paragraph (e) of this section or the withholding statement indicates that appropriate documentation sufficient to cure the U.S. indicia in the manner set forth in paragraph (e) of this section has been obtained and provides details of such documentation, such as the type of documentation and an identification number of the person contained in the document.

(vii) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(e)(4)(vii).

(A) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(e)(4)(vii)(A).

(B) *Reason to know there are U.S. indicia associated with preexisting obligations.* With respect to a preexisting obligation, a withholding agent may apply the limits on reason to know described in § 1.1441-7(b)(3)(ii) for a person that the withholding agent has previously documented for purposes of chapters 3 or 61. A withholding agent that applies the limits on reason to know described in § 1.1441-7(b)(3)(ii) must, however, review for U.S. indicia any additional documentation upon which the withholding agent is relying to determine the chapter 4 status of the person, if any.

(C) and (D) [Reserved]. For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(e)(4)(vii)(C) and (D).

(viii) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(e)(4)(viii).

(A) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(e)(4)(viii)(A).

(*1*) through (*3*) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(e)(4)(viii)(A)(*1*) through (*3*).

(*4*) Is a spouse or unmarried child under the age of 21 years of an individual described in one of the paragraphs (e)(4)(viii)(A)(*1*) through (*3*) of this section;

(B) through (D) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(e)(4)(viii)(B) through (D).

(5) through (6) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(e)(5) through (6).

(f) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(f).

(1) *In general.* A withholding agent that cannot, prior to the payment, reliably associate (within the meaning of paragraph (c) of this section) the payment with valid documentation may rely on the presumptions of this paragraph (f) to determine the status of the payee (or other person receiving the payment) as a U.S. or foreign person and such person's other relevant characteristics (for example, as a nonparticipating FFI). Paragraph (f)(2) of this section provides the presumption rules with respect to classification as an individual or entity. Paragraph (f)(3) of this section provides the presumption rules to determine a payee's U.S. or foreign status. Paragraph (f)(4) of this section provides the presumption rules with respect to an entity's chapter 4 status. Paragraph (f)(5) of this section provides the presumption rules with respect to an intermediary or flow-through entity. Paragraph (f)(6) of this section provides the presumption rules with respect to effectively connected income paid to a U.S. branch of a payee. Paragraph (f)(7) of this section provides the presumption rules that apply to a payment made to joint payees. Paragraph (f)(8) of this section provides rules for how a payee may rebut the presumptions described in this paragraph (f). Paragraph (f)(9) of this section provides the consequences to a withholding agent that fails to withhold in accordance with the presumptions set forth in this paragraph (f) or that has actual knowledge or reason to know facts that are contrary to the presumptions set forth in this paragraph (f).

(2) *Presumptions of classification as an individual or entity and entity as the beneficial owner.* A withholding agent that cannot reliably associate a payment with a valid withholding certificate, or that has received valid documentary evidence (as described in paragraph (c)(5) of this section), but cannot determine a payee's status as an individual or an entity from the documentary evidence, must apply the presumption rules of § 1.1441-1(b)(3)(ii) to determine the payee's classification as an individual, trust, partnership, corporation, intermediary, or flow-through entity. Additionally, a withholding agent that receives valid documentary evidence with respect to an entity must apply the rules under § 1.1441-1(b)(3)(ii) to determine when it may treat such entity as a beneficial owner.

(3) *Presumptions of U.S. or foreign status.* If a withholding agent cannot reliably associate a payment with a valid withholding certificate or valid documentary evidence from which it is possible to determine the payee's U.S. or foreign status, it must apply the presumption rules of § 1.1441-1(b)(3)(iii) to determine the U.S. or foreign status of the payee (substituting the term *withholdable payment* for the term *payment*). In the case of a payment that a withholding agent can reliably associate with valid documentation that indicates the payment is made to a U.S. person but does not indicate whether the person is a specified U.S. person, the payment will be presumed made to a specified U.S. person unless the withholding agent can apply the presumption rules of § 1.6049-4(c)(1)(ii)(B), (C), (D), (E), (I), (J), (K), (L), or (N), to presume that the person is other than a specified U.S. person, or the person's name reasonably indicates that the person is a bank (for example because it contains the word *Bank* or a foreign equivalent).

(4) *Presumption of chapter 4 status for a foreign entity.* If a withholding agent cannot reliably associate a valid withholding certificate or valid documentary evidence sufficient to determine the chapter 4 status of the entity receiving payment under paragraph (d) of this section (for example, as a participating FFI, nonparticipating FFI, or NFFE), it must presume that the entity is a nonparticipating FFI.

(5) *Presumption of chapter 4 status of payee with respect to a payment to an intermediary or flow-through entity.* If a withholding agent makes a payment to a foreign flow-through entity or intermediary, including a payment that it is required to treat as made to such an entity under paragraphs (f)(2) and (3) of this section, and cannot reliably associate such payment with valid documentation under paragraph (c) of this section, the withholding agent must presume that the payment is made to a nonparticipating FFI.

(6) *Presumption of effectively connected income for payments to certain U.S. branches.* A withholding agent that makes a payment to a U.S. branch described in this paragraph (f)(6) may presume, in the absence of documentation indicating otherwise, that the U.S. branch is the payee of a payment that is effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States if the withholding agent has obtained an EIN from the U.S. branch (either orally or in writing). A U.S. branch is described in this paragraph (f)(6) if it is a U.S. branch of a foreign bank subject to regulatory supervision by the Federal Reserve Board or a U.S. branch of a foreign insurance company required to file an annual statement on a form approved by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners with the Insurance Department of a State, a Territory, or the District of Columbia. A payment is treated as made to a U.S. branch of a foreign bank or foreign insurance company if the payment is credited to an account maintained in the United States in the name of a U.S. branch of the foreign person, or the payment is made to an address in the United States where the U.S. branch is located and the name of the U.S. branch appears on documents (in written or electronic form) associated with the payment (for example, the check mailed or letter addressed to the branch).

(7) *Joint payees* - (i) *In general.* If a withholding agent makes a payment to joint payees and cannot reliably associate the payment with valid documentation from each payee but all of the joint payees appear to be individuals, then the payment is presumed made to an unidentified U.S. person. If any joint payee does not appear, by its name and other information contained in the account file, to be an individual, then the entire payment will be treated as made to a nonparticipating FFI. However, if one of the joint payees provides a Form W-9 in accordance with the procedures described in §§ 31.3406(d)-1 through 31.3406(d)-5, the payment shall be treated as made to that payee.

(ii) *Exception for offshore obligations.* If a withholding agent makes a payment outside the United States with respect to an offshore obligation held by joint payees and cannot reliably associate a payment with valid documentation from each payee but all of the joint payees appear to be individuals, then the payment is presumed made to an unknown foreign individual if the payment with respect to the offshore obligation is made outside the United States (as described in § 1.6049-5(e)).

(8) *Rebuttal of presumptions.* A payee may rebut the presumptions described in paragraphs (f)(2) through (7) of this section by providing reliable documentation to the withholding agent or, if applicable, to the IRS.

(9) *Effect of reliance on presumptions and of actual knowledge or reason to know otherwise* - (i) *In general.* Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (f)(9), a withholding agent that withholds on a payment under section 1471 or 1472 in accordance with the presumptions set forth in this paragraph (f) shall not be liable for withholding under this section even if it is later established that the payee has a chapter 4 status other than the status presumed. A withholding agent that fails to report and withhold in accordance with the presumptions described in paragraphs (f)(2) through (7) of this section with respect to a payment that it cannot reliably associate with valid documentation shall be liable for tax, interest, and penalties. See § 1.1474-1(a) for the extent of a withholding agent's liability for failing to withhold in accordance with the presumptions described in this paragraph (f).

(ii) *Actual knowledge or reason to know that amount of withholding is greater than is required under the presumptions or that reporting of the payment is required.* Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (f)(9)(i) of this section, a withholding agent that knows or has reason to know that the status or characteristics of the person are other than what is presumed under this paragraph (f) may not rely on the presumptions described in this paragraph (f) to the extent that, if it determined the status of the person based on such knowledge or reason to know, it would be required to withhold (under this section or another withholding provision of the Code) an amount greater than would be the case if it relied on the presumptions described in this paragraph (f). In such a case, the withholding agent must rely on its knowledge or reason to know rather than on the presumptions set forth in this paragraph (f). Failure to do so shall result in liability for tax, interest, and penalties to the extent described in § 1.1474-1(a).

(g) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.1471-3(g).

(h) *Expiration date.* The applicability of this section expires on February 28, 2017.

[T.D. 9657, 79 FR 12831, Mar. 6, 2014; 79 FR 37177, July 1, 2014]