##### ยง 1.1238-1 Amortization in excess of depreciation. #####

(a) *In general.* Section 1238 provides that if a taxpayer is entitled to a deduction for amortization of an emergency facility under section 168, and if the facility is later sold or exchanged, any gain realized shall be considered as ordinary income to the extent that the amortization deduction exceeds normal depreciation. Thus, under section 1238 gain from a sale or exchange of property shall be considered as ordinary income to the extent that its adjusted basis is less than its adjusted basis would be if it were determined without regard to section 168. If an entire facility is certified under section 168(e), the taxpayer may use allowances for depreciation based on any rate and method which would have been proper if the basis of the facility were not subject to amortization under section 168, in determining what the adjusted basis of the facility would be if it were determined without regard to section 168. If only a portion of a facility is certified under section 168(e), allowances for depreciation based on the rate and method properly used with respect to the uncertified part of the facility are used in determining what the adjusted basis of the facility would be if it were determined without regard to section 168. The principles of this paragraph may be illustrated by the following examples:

Example 1.On December 31, 1954, a taxpayer making his income tax returns on a calendar year basis acquires at a cost of $20,000 an emergency facility (used in his business) 50 percent of the adjusted basis of which has been certified under section 168(e). The facility would normally have a useful life of 20 years and a salvage value of $2,000 allocable equally between the certified and uncertified portions. Under section 168 the taxpayer elects to begin the 60-month amortization period on January 1, 1955. He takes amortization deductions with respect to the certified portion in the amount of $4,000 for the years 1955 and 1956 (24 months). On December 31, 1956, he sells the facility for a price of $19,000 which is allocable equally between the certified and uncertified portions. The adjusted basis of the certified portion on that date is $6,000 ($10,000 cost, less $4,000 amortization). With respect to the uncertified portion, the straight line method of depreciation is used and a deduction for depreciation in the amount of $450 is claimed and allowed for the year 1955. The adjusted basis of the uncertified portion on January 1, 1956, is $9,550 ($10,000 cost, less $450 depreciation). The depreciation allowance for the uncertified portion for the year 1956 would be limited to $50, the amount by which the adjusted basis of such portion at the beginning of the year exceeded its aliquot portion of the sales price. Thus, on December 31, 1956, the adjusted basis of the uncertified portion would be $9,500. Without regard to section 168, and using the rate and method the taxpayer properly applied to the uncertified portion of the facility, the adjusted basis of the certified portion on December 31, 1956, would be $9,500, computed in the same manner as the adjusted basis of the uncertified portion. The difference between the facility's actual adjusted basis ($15,500) and its adjusted basis determined without regard to section 168 ($19,000), is $3,500. Accordingly, the entire $3,500 gain on the sale of the facility ($19,000 sale price, less $15,500 adjusted basis) is treated as ordinary income.Example 2.Assume that the entire facility in example (1) had been certified under section 168(e) and that, therefore, the adjusted basis of the facility on December 31, 1956, is $12,000. Assume further that the taxpayer adopts straight line depreciation as a proper method of depreciation for determining the adjusted basis of the facility without regard to section 168. Thus, the adjusted basis, without regard to section 168, would be $19,000. This amount is $7,000 more than the $12,000 adjusted basis under section 168. Hence, the entire $7,000 gain on the sale of the facility ($19,000 sale price less $12,000 adjusted basis) is treated as ordinary income.

(b) *Substituted basis.* If a taxpayer acquires other property in an exchange for an emergency facility with respect to which amortization deductions have been allowed or allowable, and if the basis in his hands of the other property is determined by reference to the basis of the emergency facility, then the basis of the other property is determined with regard to section 168, and therefore the provisions of section 1238 apply with respect to gain realized on a subsequent sale or exchange of the other property. The provisions of section 1238 also apply to gain realized on the sale or exchange of an emergency facility (or other property acquired, as described in the preceding sentence, in exchange for an emergency facility) by a taxpayer in whose hands the basis of the facility (or other property) is determined by reference to its basis in the hands of another person to whom deductions were allowable or allowed with respect to the facility under section 168.

[T.D. 6500, 25 FR 12020, Nov. 26, 1960, as amended by T.D. 6825, 30 FR 7281, June 2, 1965]