cfr/title-50-Wildlife-Fisheries/chapter-VI-Fishery-Conservation-Management-National-Oceanic-Atmospheric-Administration-Department-Commerce/part-679-Fisheries-Exclusive-Economic-Zone-off-Alaska/subpart-A-General/section-679.3.md, before:

##### § 679.3 Relation to other laws. #####

Link to an amendment published at 89 FR 34758, Apr. 30, 2024.

(a) *Foreign fishing for groundfish.* Regulations governing U.S. nationals fishing in the Russian fisheries are set forth in part 300 of chapter III of this title.

(b) *Domestic fishing for groundfish.* (1) The conservation and management of groundfish in waters of the territorial sea and internal waters of the State of Alaska are governed by the Alaska Administrative Code at 5 AAC Chapter 28 and by the Alaska Statutes at Title 16.

(2) Alaska Administrative Code (5 AAC 39.130) governs reporting and permitting requirements using ADF&G “Intent to Operate” and “Fish Tickets.”

(c) *Halibut.* Additional regulations governing the conservation and management of halibut are set forth in subpart E of part 300 of chapter III of this title.

(d) *King and Tanner crabs.* Additional regulations governing conservation and management of king crabs and Tanner crabs in the Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands Area are contained in 50 CFR part 680 and in Alaska Statutes at A.S. 16 and Alaska Administrative Code at 5 AAC Chapters 34, 35, and 39.

(e) *Incidental catch of marine mammals.* Regulations governing exemption permits and the recordkeeping and reporting of the incidental take of marine mammals are set forth in § 216.24 and part 229 of this title.

(f) *Domestic fishing for salmon.* Management of the salmon commercial troll fishery and sport fishery in the East Area of the Salmon Management Area, defined at § 679.2, is delegated to the State of Alaska.

(g) *Scallops.* Additional regulations governing conservation and management of scallops off Alaska are contained in Alaska Statutes A.S. 16 and Alaska Administrative Code at 5 AAC Chapter 38.

[61 FR 31230, June 19, 1996, as amended at 61 FR 35578, July 5, 1996; 62 FR 2045, Jan. 15, 1997; 62 FR 19688, Apr. 23, 1997; 63 FR 38502, July 17, 1998; 63 FR 47356, Sept. 4, 1998; 69 FR 877, Jan. 7, 2004; 70 FR 10232, Mar. 2, 2005; 77 FR 75587, Dec. 21, 2012]

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2024-05-30 issue
Title: 13: Business Credit and Assistance - Sections changed: 11
Title: 15: Commerce and Foreign Trade - Sections changed: 31
Title: 16: Commercial Practices - Sections changed: 1
Title: 10: Energy - Sections changed: 3
Title: 48: Federal Acquisition Regulations System - Sections changed: 31
Title: 2: Federal Financial Assistance - Sections changed: 12
Title: 21: Food and Drugs - Sections changed: 1
Title: 36: Parks, Forests, and Public Property - Sections changed: 4
Title: 38: Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief - Sections changed: 5
Title: 40: Protection of Environment - Sections changed: 1
Title: 47: Telecommunication - Sections changed: 16
Title: 49: Transportation - Sections changed: 2
Title: 50: Wildlife and Fisheries - Sections changed: 22

cfr/title-50-Wildlife-Fisheries/chapter-VI-Fishery-Conservation-Management-National-Oceanic-Atmospheric-Administration-Department-Commerce/part-679-Fisheries-Exclusive-Economic-Zone-off-Alaska/subpart-A-General/section-679.3.md, after:

##### § 679.3 Relation to other laws. #####

(a) *Foreign fishing for groundfish.* Regulations governing U.S. nationals fishing in the Russian fisheries are set forth in part 300 of chapter III of this title.

(b) *Domestic fishing for groundfish.* (1) The conservation and management of groundfish in waters of the territorial sea and internal waters of the State of Alaska are governed by the Alaska Administrative Code at 5 AAC Chapter 28 and by the Alaska Statutes at Title 16.

(2) Alaska Administrative Code (5 AAC 39.130) governs reporting and permitting requirements using ADF&G “Intent to Operate” and “Fish Tickets.”

(c) *Halibut.* Additional regulations governing the conservation and management of halibut are set forth in subpart E of part 300 of chapter III of this title.

(d) *King and Tanner crabs.* Additional regulations governing conservation and management of king crabs and Tanner crabs in the Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands Area are contained in 50 CFR part 680 and in Alaska Statutes at A.S. 16 and Alaska Administrative Code at 5 AAC Chapters 34, 35, and 39.

(e) *Incidental catch of marine mammals.* Regulations governing exemption permits and the recordkeeping and reporting of the incidental take of marine mammals are set forth in § 216.24 and part 229 of this title.

(f) *Domestic fishing for salmon.* Management of the salmon commercial troll fishery and recreational fishery in the East Area of the Salmon Management Area, defined at § 679.2, is delegated to the State of Alaska. Regulations governing the commercial drift gillnet salmon fishery and recreational salmon fishery in the Cook Inlet EEZ Area, defined at § 679.2, are set forth in subpart J of this part.

(g) *Scallops.* Additional regulations governing conservation and management of scallops off Alaska are contained in Alaska Statutes A.S. 16 and Alaska Administrative Code at 5 AAC Chapter 38.

[61 FR 31230, June 19, 1996, as amended at 61 FR 35578, July 5, 1996; 62 FR 2045, Jan. 15, 1997; 62 FR 19688, Apr. 23, 1997; 63 FR 38502, July 17, 1998; 63 FR 47356, Sept. 4, 1998; 69 FR 877, Jan. 7, 2004; 70 FR 10232, Mar. 2, 2005; 77 FR 75587, Dec. 21, 2012; 89 FR 34758, Apr. 30, 2024]
