##### § 165.6 Procedures. #####

(a) The NC recoupment charge to be reimbursed shall be a pro rata recovery of NCs for the applicable major defense equipment (MDE). Recovery of NC recoupment charges shall cease upon the recovery of total DoD nonrecurring investment costs. Such charges shall be based on a cost pool as defined in § 165.3. For an MDE system that includes more than one component, a “building block” approach (i.e., the sum of NC recoupment charges for individual components) shall be used to determine the NC recoupment charge for the sale of the entire system.

(b) The NC recoupment charge shall not apply when a waiver has been approved by USD(P), in accordance with § 165.7, or when sales are financed with USG funds made available on a non-repayable basis. Approved revised NC recoupment charges shall not be applied retroactively to accepted foreign military sales agreements.

(c) When MDE is sold at a reduced price due to age or condition, the equipment's NC recoupment charge shall be reduced by the same percentage reduction.

(d) The full amount of costs for “special” research, development, test, and evaluation and nonrecurring production costs incurred for the benefit of particular customers shall be paid by those customers. However, when a subsequent purchaser requests the same specialized features that resulted from the added “special” research, development, test, and evaluation and nonrecurring production costs, a pro rata share of those costs may be paid by the subsequent purchaser and transferred to the original customer if those special NCs exceed 50 million dollars. The pro rata share may be a unit charge determined by the DoD Component as a result of distribution of the total costs divided by the total production. Unless otherwise authorized by USD(P), special research, development, test, and evaluation and nonrecurring production costs will not be collected after 10 years have passed since the date the original FMS customer accepted the FMS Letter of Offer and Acceptance (LOA) that included the special NC charges. The USG shall not be charged any NC recoupment charges if it adopts the features for its own use or provides equipment with such features under a U.S. grant aid or similar program.

(e) Cooperative DoD agreements, to include co-production, co-development and cooperative development agreements, shall use the policy in this part to determine the allocation basis for recouping the participant investment costs from third-party purchasers. Each respective DoD agreement shall bind all parties to the agreement to comply with the policies in this part regarding third party sales and for the distribution of recouped funds among the parties.