##### ยง 307.8 Definitions. #####

Link to an amendment published at 82 FR 57055, Dec. 1, 2017.

In addition to the defined terms set forth in ยง 300.3 of this chapter, the following terms used in this part shall have the following meanings:

*Closed Loan* means any loan for which all required documentation has been received, reviewed and executed by an RLF Recipient.

*Exempt Security* means a Security that is not subject to certain SEC or Federal Reserve Board rules.

*Prudent Lending Practices* means generally accepted underwriting and lending practices for public loan programs, based on sound judgment to protect Federal and lender interests. Prudent Lending Practices include loan processing, documentation, loan approval, collections, servicing, administrative procedures, collateral protection and recovery actions. Prudent Lending Practices provide for compliance with local laws and filing requirements to perfect and maintain a security interest in RLF collateral.

*Recapitalization Grants* are Investments of additional Grant funds to increase the capital base of an RLF.

*Reporting Period*, for purposes of this subpart B only, means the period from April 1st to September 30th or the period from October 1st to March 31st.

*Revolving Phase* means that stage of the RLF's business lending activities that commences immediately after all Grant funds have been disbursed to the RLF Recipient.

*RLF Capital* means Grant funds plus Local Share plus RLF Income, less any amount used for eligible and reasonable costs necessary to administer the RLF and any amount of loan principal written off.

*RLF Income* means interest earned on outstanding loan principal and RLF accounts holding RLF funds (excluding interest earned on excess funds pursuant to ยง 307.16(c)(2)), all fees and charges received by the RLF, and other income generated from RLF operations. An RLF Recipient may use RLF Income only to capitalize the RLF for financing activities and to cover eligible and reasonable costs necessary to administer the RLF, unless otherwise provided for in the Grant agreement or approved in writing by EDA. RLF Income excludes repayments of principal and any interest remitted to the U.S. Treasury pursuant to ยง 307.16(c)(2)(i).

*RLF Third Party,* for purposes of this subpart B only, means an Eligible Recipient or for-profit entity selected by EDA through a request for applications or Cooperative Agreement to facilitate or manage the intended liquidation of an RLF.

*Sale* means an EDA-approved sale by an RLF Recipient of its RLF loan portfolio (or a portion thereof) to a third party. A third party may participate in a subsequent Securitization offered in a secondary market transaction and collateralized by the underlying RLF loan portfolio (or a portion thereof).

*SEC* or the *Commission* means the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.

*Securitization* refers to the financing technique of securing an investment of new capital with a stream of income generated by aggregating similar instruments such as loans or mortgages into a new transferable Security.

*Security* means any investment instrument issued by a corporation, government or other organization which offers evidence of debt or equity.

[71 FR 56675, Sept. 27, 2006, as amended at 73 FR 62867, Oct. 22, 2008; 75 FR 4264, Jan. 27, 2010]