##### § 307.21 Termination of Revolving Loan Funds. #####

(a)(1) EDA may suspend or terminate an RLF Grant for cause, including the RLF Recipient's failure to:

(i) Operate the RLF in accordance with the Plan, the RLF Grant or this part;

(ii) Obtain prior EDA approval for material changes to the Plan, including provisions for administering the RLF;

(iii) Submit an updated Plan to EDA in accordance with § 307.9(c);

(iv) Submit timely progress, financial and audit reports in the format required by the RLF Grant and § 307.14, including the semi-annual report and the Income and Expense Statement (if applicable);

(v) Manage the RLF Grant in accordance with Prudent Lending Practices, as defined in § 307.8;

(vi) Sequester excess funds or remit the interest on EDA's portion of the sequestered funds to the U.S. Treasury, as directed by EDA;

(vii) Submit the documentation requested by EDA regarding a high loan default rate and collection efforts, or correct a high loan default rate, as determined by EDA;

(viii) Comply with the audit requirements set forth in OMB Circular A-133 and the related Compliance Supplement, including reference to the correctly valued EDA RLF Federal expenditures in the Schedule of Expenditures of Federal Awards (“*SEFA”*), timely submission of audit reports to the Federal Audit Clearinghouse, and the correct designation of the RLF as a “major program” (as that term is defined in OMB Circular A-133);

(ix) Comply with an EDA-approved corrective action plan to remedy RLF-related audit findings; and

(x) Comply with the conflicts of interest provisions set forth in § 302.17.

(2) To maintain effective control over and accountability of RLF Grant funds and assets, EDA shall determine the manner and timing of any suspension or termination action. EDA may require the RLF Recipient to repay the Federal Share in a lump-sum payment or enter into a Sale, or EDA may agree to enter into a repayment agreement with the RLF Recipient for repayment of the Federal Share.

(b) EDA may approve a request from an RLF Recipient to terminate an RLF Grant. The RLF Recipient must compensate the Federal government for the Federal Share of the RLF property, including the current value of all outstanding RLF loans. However, with EDA's prior approval, upon a showing of compelling circumstances, the RLF Recipient may retain and use for other economic development activities the RLF Recipient's share of RLF Income (or program income) generated by the RLF.

(c) Upon termination, distribution of proceeds shall occur in accordance with § 307.20(d).

[71 FR 56675, Sept. 27, 2006, as amended at 73 FR 62869, Oct. 22, 2008; 75 FR 4265, Jan. 27, 2010; 79 FR 76135, Dec. 19, 2014]