##### § 127.504 What requirements must an EDWOSB or WOSB meet to be eligible for an EDWOSB or WOSB requirement? #####

Link to an amendment published at 89 FR 96094, Dec. 4, 2024.Link to an amendment published at 89 FR 102507, Dec. 17, 2024.

(a) *General.* In order for a concern to submit an offer on a specific EDWOSB or WOSB set-aside requirement, the concern must qualify as a small business concern under the size standard corresponding to the NAICS code assigned to the contract, and either be a certified EDWOSB or WOSB pursuant to § 127.300, or represent that it has submitted a complete application for WOSB or EDWOSB certification to SBA or a third-party certifier and has not received a negative determination regarding that application from SBA or the third party certifier.

(1) If a concern becomes the apparent successful offeror while its application for WOSB or EDWOSB certification is pending, either at SBA or a third-party certifier, the contracting officer for the particular contract must immediately inform SBA's D/GC. SBA will then prioritize the concern's WOSB or EDWOSB application and make a determination regarding the firm's status as a WOSB or EDWOSB within 15 calendar days from the date that SBA received the contracting officer's notification. Where the application is pending with a third-party certifier, SBA will immediately contact the third-party certifier to require the third-party certifier to complete its determination within 15 calendar days.

(2) If the contracting officer does not receive an SBA or third-party certifier determination within 15 calendar days after the SBA's receipt of the notification, the contracting officer may presume that the apparently successful offeror is not an eligible WOSB or EDWOSB and may make award accordingly, unless the contracting officer grants an extension to the 15-day response period.

(b) *Sole source EDWOSB or WOSB requirements.* In order for a concern to seek a specific sole source EDWOSB or WOSB requirement, the concern must be a certified EDWOSB or WOSB pursuant to § 127.300 and qualify as small under the size standard corresponding to the requirement being sought.

(c) *Joint ventures.* A business concern seeking an EDWOSB or WOSB contract as a joint venture may submit an offer if the joint venture meets the requirements as set forth in § 127.506.

(d) *Multiple Award Contracts.* With respect to Multiple Award Contracts, orders issued against a Multiple Award Contract, and Blanket Purchase Agreements issued against a Multiple Award Contract:

(1) SBA determines EDWOSB or WOSB eligibility for the underlying Multiple Award Contract as of the date a concern certifies its status as an EDWOSB or WOSB as part of its initial offer (or other formal response to a solicitation), which includes price, unless the concern was required to recertify its status as a WOSB or EDWOSB under paragraph (f) of this section.

(i) *Unrestricted Multiple Award Contracts or Set-Aside Multiple Award Contracts for Other than EDWOSB or WOSB.* For an unrestricted Multiple Award Contract or other Multiple Award Contract not set aside specifically for EDWOSB or WOSB, if a business concern is an EDWOSB or WOSB at the time of offer and contract-level recertification for the Multiple Award Contract, it is an EDWOSB or WOSB for goaling purposes for each order issued against the contract, unless a contracting officer requests recertification as an EDWOSB or WOSB for a specific order or Blanket Purchase Agreement. Except for orders and Blanket Purchase Agreements issued under any Federal Supply Schedule contract, if an order or a Blanket Purchase Agreement under an unrestricted Multiple Award Contract is set aside exclusively for EDWOSB or WOSB, a concern must recertify it qualifies as an EDWOSB or WOSB at the time it submits its initial offer, which includes price, for the particular order or Agreement. However, where the underlying Multiple Award Contract has been awarded to a pool of WOSB or EDWOSB concerns for which WOSB or EDWOSB status is required, if an order or a Blanket Purchase Agreement under that Multiple Award Contract is set aside exclusively for concerns in the WOSB or EDWOSB pool, concerns need not recertify their status as WOSBs or EDWOSBs (unless a contracting officer requests size certifications with respect to a specific order or Blanket Purchase Agreement).

(ii) *EDWOSB or WOSB Set-Aside Multiple Award Contracts.* For a Multiple Award Contract that is set aside specifically for EDWOSB or WOSB, if a business concern is an EDWOSB or WOSB at the time of offer and contract-level recertification for the Multiple Award Contract, it is an EDWOSB or WOSB for each order issued against the contract, unless a contracting officer requests recertification as an EDWOSB or WOSB for a specific order or Blanket Purchase Agreement.

(2) SBA will determine EDWOSB or WOSB status at the time a business concern submits its initial offer (or other formal response to a solicitation) which includes price for an order or an Agreement issued against a Multiple Award Contract if the contracting officer requests a new EDWOSB or WOSB certification for the order or Agreement.

(e) *Limitations on subcontracting.* A business concern seeking an EDWOSB or WOSB requirement must also meet the applicable limitations on subcontracting requirements as set forth in § 125.6 of this chapter for the performance of EDWOSB or WOSB contracts (both sole source and those totally set aside for EDWOSB or WOSB), the performance of the set-aside portion of a partial set-aside contract, or the performance of orders set-aside for EDWOSB or WOSB.

(f) *Non-manufacturers.* An EDWOSB or WOSB that is a non-manufacturer, as defined in § 121.406(b) of this chapter, may submit an offer on an EDWOSB or WOSB contract for supplies, if it meets the requirements under the non-manufacturer rule set forth in § 121.406(b) of this chapter.

(g) *Ostensible subcontractor.* Where a subcontractor that is not similarly situated performs primary and vital requirements of a set-aside service contract, or where a prime contractor is unduly reliant on a small business that is not similarly situated to perform the set-aside service contract, the prime contractor is not eligible for award of a WOSB or EDWOSB contract.

(1) When the subcontractor is small for the size standard assigned to the procurement, this issue may be grounds for a WOSB or EDWOSB status protest, as described in subpart F of this part. When the subcontractor is other than small or alleged to be other than small for the size standard assigned to the procurement, this issue may be grounds for a size protest, as described at § 121.103(h)(3) of this chapter.

(2) In the case of a contract or order for services, specialty trade construction or supplies, SBA will find that a prime WOSB or EDWOSB contractor is performing the primary and vital requirements of the contract or order, and is not unduly reliant on one or more subcontractors that are not certified WOSBs or EDWOSBs, where the prime contractor can demonstrate that it, together with any subcontractors that are certified WOSBs or EDWOSBs, will meet the limitations on subcontracting provisions set forth in § 125.6 of this chapter.

(3) In a general construction contract, the primary and vital requirements of the contract are the management, supervision and oversight of the project, including coordinating the work of various subcontractors, not the actual construction work performed.

(h) *Recertification.* (1) Where a contract being performed by an EDWOSB or WOSB is novated to another business concern, the concern that will continue performance on the contract must recertify its status as an EDWOSB or WOSB (or qualify as a certified EDWOSB or WOSB for a WOSB contract) to the procuring agency, or inform the procuring agency that it does not qualify as an EDWOSB or WOSB, (or qualify as a certified EDWOSB or WOSB for a WOSB contract) within 30 days of the novation approval. If the concern cannot recertify its status as an EDWOSB or WOSB (or qualify as a certified EDWOSB or WOSB for a WOSB contract), the agency must modify the contract to reflect the new status, and may not count the options or orders issued pursuant to the contract, from that point forward, towards its women-owned small business goals.

(2) Where an EDWOSB or WOSB concern that is performing a contract acquires, is acquired by, or merges with another concern and contract novation is not required, the concern must, within 30 days of the transaction becoming final, recertify its status as an EDWOSB or WOSB (or qualify as a certified EDWOSB or WOSB for a WOSB contract) to the procuring agency, or inform the procuring agency that it no longer qualifies as an EDWOSB or WOSB (or qualify as a certified EDWOSB or WOSB for a WOSB contract). If the concern is unable to recertify its status as an EDWOSB or WOSB (or qualify as a certified EDWOSB or WOSB for a WOSB contract), the agency must modify the contract to reflect the new status, and may not count the options or orders issued pursuant to the contract, from that point forward, towards its women-owned small business goals.

(3) For purposes of contracts (including Multiple Award Contracts) with durations of more than five years (including options), a contracting officer must request that a business concern recertify its status as an EDWOSB or WOSB (or qualify as a certified EDWOSB or WOSB for a WOSB contract) no more than 120 days prior to the end of the fifth year of the contract, and no more than 120 days prior to exercising any option. If the concern is unable to recertify its status as an EDWOSB or WOSB (or qualify as a certified EDWOSB or WOSB for a WOSB contract), the agency must modify the contract to reflect the new status, and may not count the options or orders issued pursuant to the contract, from that point forward, towards its women-owned small business goals.

(4) A business concern that did not certify as an EDWOSB or WOSB, either initially or prior to an option being exercised, may recertify as an EDWOSB or WOSB (or qualify as a certified EDWOSB or WOSB for a WOSB contract) for a subsequent option period if it meets the eligibility requirements at that time. The agency must modify the contract to reflect the new status, and may count the options or orders issued pursuant to the contract, from that point forward, towards its women-owned small business goals.

(5) Recertification does not change the terms and conditions of the contract. The limitations on subcontracting, nonmanufacturer and subcontracting plan requirements in effect at the time of contract award remain in effect throughout the life of the contract.

(6) A concern's status will be determined at the time of a response to a solicitation for an Agreement and each order issued pursuant to the Agreement.

[85 FR 66197, Oct. 16, 2020, as amended at 86 FR 10732, Feb. 23, 2021; 88 FR 26215, Apr. 27, 2023]