cfr/title-15-Commerce-Foreign-Trade/subtitle-B-Regulations-Relating-Commerce-Foreign-Trade/chapter-I-Bureau-Census-Department-Commerce/part-30-Foreign-Trade-Regulations/subpart-H-Penalties/section-30.71.md, before:

##### § 30.71 False or fraudulent reporting on or misuse of the Automated Export System. #####

(a) *Criminal penalties*—(1) *Failure to file; submission of false or misleading information.* Any person, including USPPIs, authorized agents or carriers, who knowingly fails to file or knowingly submits, directly or indirectly, to the U.S. Government, false or misleading export information through the AES, shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $10,000 or imprisonment for not more than five years, or both, for each violation.

(2) *Furtherance of illegal activities.* Any person, including USPPIs, authorized agents or carriers, who knowingly reports, directly or indirectly, to the U.S. Government any information through or otherwise uses the AES to further any illegal activity shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $10,000 or imprisonment for not more than five years, or both, for each violation.

(3) *Forfeiture penalties.* Any person who is convicted under this subpart shall, in addition to any other penalty, be subject to forfeiting to the United States:

(i) Any of that person's interest in, security of, claim against, or property or contractual rights of any kind in the goods or tangible items that were the subject of the violation.

(ii) Any of that person's interest in, security of, claim against, or property or contractual rights of any kind in tangible property that was used in the export or attempt to export that was the subject of the violation.

(iii) Any of that person's property constituting, or derived from, any proceeds obtained directly or indirectly as a result of this violation.

(4) *Exemption.* The criminal fines provided for in this subpart are exempt from the provisions of 18 U.S.C. 3571.

(b) *Civil penalties*—(1) *Failure to file violations.* A failure to file violation occurs if the government discovers that there is no AES record for an export transaction by the applicable period prescribed in § 30.4 of this part. Any AES record filed later than ten (10) calendar days after the due date will also be considered a failure to file regardless of whether the violation was or was not discovered by the government. A civil penalty not to exceed $10,000 may be imposed for a failure to file violation.

(2) *Late filing violations.* A late filing violation occurs when an AES record is filed after the applicable period prescribed in § 30.4 of this part. A civil penalty not to exceed $1,100 for each day of delinquency, but not more than $10,000 per violation, may be imposed for failure to file timely export information or reports in connection with the exportation or transportation of cargo. (See 19 CFR part 192)

(3) *Filing false/misleading information, furtherance of illegal activities and penalties for other violations.* A civil penalty not to exceed $10,000 per violation may be imposed for each violation of provisions of this part other than any violation encompassed by paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section. Such penalty may be in addition to any other penalty imposed by law.

(4) *Forfeiture penalties.* In addition to any other civil penalties specified in this section, any property involved in a violation may be subject to forfeiture under applicable law.

Note to paragraph (b):

The Civil Monetary Penalties; Adjustment for Inflation Final Rule effective December 14, 2004, adjusted the penalty in Title 13, Chapter 9, Section 304, United States Code from $1,000 to $10,000 to $1,100 to $10,000.

[73 FR 31555, June 2, 2008, as amended at 78 FR 16382, Mar. 14, 2013]

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2023-08-10 issue
Title: 15: Commerce and Foreign Trade - Sections changed: 8
Title: 22: Foreign Relations - Sections changed: 4
Title: 29: Labor - Sections changed: 7
Title: 37: Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights - Sections changed: 1
Title: 40: Protection of Environment - Sections changed: 2

cfr/title-15-Commerce-Foreign-Trade/subtitle-B-Regulations-Relating-Commerce-Foreign-Trade/chapter-I-Bureau-Census-Department-Commerce/part-30-Foreign-Trade-Regulations/subpart-H-Penalties/section-30.71.md, after:

##### § 30.71 False or fraudulent reporting on or misuse of the Automated Export System. #####

(a) *Criminal penalties*—(1) *Failure to file; submission of false or misleading information.* Any person, including USPPIs, authorized agents or carriers, who knowingly fails to file or knowingly submits, directly or indirectly, to the U.S. Government, false or misleading export information through the AES, shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $10,000 or imprisonment for not more than five years, or both, for each violation.

(2) *Furtherance of illegal activities.* Any person, including USPPIs, authorized agents or carriers, who knowingly reports, directly or indirectly, to the U.S. Government any information through or otherwise uses the AES to further any illegal activity shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $10,000 or imprisonment for not more than five years, or both, for each violation.

(3) *Forfeiture penalties.* Any person who is convicted under this subpart shall, in addition to any other penalty, be subject to forfeiting to the United States:

(i) Any of that person's interest in, security of, claim against, or property or contractual rights of any kind in the goods or tangible items that were the subject of the violation.

(ii) Any of that person's interest in, security of, claim against, or property or contractual rights of any kind in tangible property that was used in the export or attempt to export that was the subject of the violation.

(iii) Any of that person's property constituting, or derived from, any proceeds obtained directly or indirectly as a result of this violation.

(4) *Exemption.* The criminal fines provided for in this subpart are exempt from the provisions of 18 U.S.C. 3571.

(b) *Civil penalties*—(1) *Failure to file violations.* A failure to file violation occurs if the government discovers that there is no AES record for an export transaction by the applicable period prescribed in § 30.4 of this part. Any AES record filed later than ten (10) calendar days after the due date will also be considered a failure to file regardless of whether the violation was or was not discovered by the government. A civil penalty not to exceed $10,000 may be imposed for a failure to file violation.

(2) *Late filing violations.* A late filing violation occurs when an AES record is filed after the applicable period prescribed in § 30.4 of this part. A civil penalty not to exceed $1,100 for each day of delinquency, but not more than $10,000 per violation, may be imposed for failure to file timely export information or reports in connection with the exportation or transportation of cargo. (See 19 CFR part 192)

(3) *Filing false/misleading information, furtherance of illegal activities and penalties for other violations.* A civil penalty not to exceed $10,000 per violation may be imposed for each violation of provisions of this part other than any violation encompassed by paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section. Such penalty may be in addition to any other penalty imposed by law.

(4) *Forfeiture penalties.* In addition to any other civil penalties specified in this section, any property involved in a violation may be subject to forfeiture under applicable law.

Note 1 to paragraph (b):

The civil monetary penalties are adjusted for inflation annually based on The Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410; 28 U.S.C. 2461), as amended by the Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996 (Pub. L. 104-134) and the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act Improvements Act of 2015 (Section 701 of Pub. L. 114-74). In accordance with this Act, as amended, the penalties in title 13, chapter 9, sections 304 and 305(b), United States Code are adjusted and published each year in the Federal Register no later than January 15th.

[73 FR 31555, June 2, 2008, as amended at 78 FR 16382, Mar. 14, 2013; 88 FR 54237, Aug. 10, 2023]
