cfr/title-21-Food-Drugs/chapter-I-Food-Drug-Administration-Department-Health-Human-Services/subchapter-E-Animal-Drugs-Feeds-Related-Products/part-522-Implantation-Injectable-Dosage-Form-New-Animal-Drugs/section-522.2615.md, before:

##### § 522.2615 Tripelennamine. #####

(a) *Specifications.* Each milliliter of solution contains 20 milligrams (mg) of tripelennamine hydrochloride.

(b) *Sponsors.* See Nos. 016592 and 051031 in § 510.600(c) of this chapter.

(c) *Related tolerances.* See § 556.741 of this chapter.

(d) *Conditions of use* - (1) *Dogs and cats* - (i) *Amount.* Administer 0.5 mg per pound of body weight by intramuscular injection.

(ii) *Indications for use.* For use in treating conditions in which antihistaminic therapy may be expected to lead to alleviation of some signs of disease.

(iii) *Limitations.* Federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian.

(2) *Horses* - (i) *Amount.* Administer 0.5 mg per pound of body weight by intramuscular injection.

(ii) *Indications for use.* For use in treating conditions in which antihistaminic therapy may be expected to lead to alleviation of some signs of disease.

(iii) *Limitations.* Do not use in horses intended for human consumption. Federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian.

(3) *Cattle* - (i) *Amount.* Administer 0.5 mg per pound of body weight by intravenous or intramuscular injection.

(ii) *Indications for use.* For use in treating conditions in which antihistaminic therapy may be expected to lead to alleviation of some signs of disease.

(iii) *Limitations.* Treated cattle must not be slaughtered for food during treatment and for 4 days following the last treatment. Milk that has been taken during treatment and for 24 hours (two milkings) after the last treatment must not be used for food. A withdrawal period has not been established for this product in preruminating calves. Do not use in calves to be processed for veal. Federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian.

[51 FR 44450, Dec. 10, 1986, as amended at 61 FR 29480, June 11, 1996; 62 FR 4164, Jan. 29, 1997; 78 FR 17597, Mar. 22, 2013; 79 FR 16198, Mar. 25, 2014; 81 FR 22524, Apr. 18, 2016; 82 FR 11508, Feb. 24, 2017]

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2022-09-29 issue
Title: 13: Business Credit and Assistance - Sections changed: 1
Title: 15: Commerce and Foreign Trade - Sections changed: 3
Title: 17: Commodity and Securities Exchanges - Sections changed: 1
Title: 19: Customs Duties - Sections changed: 1
Title: 48: Federal Acquisition Regulations System - Sections changed: 4
Title: 21: Food and Drugs - Sections changed: 32
Title: 26: Internal Revenue - Sections changed: 3
Title: 31: Money and Finance: Treasury - Sections changed: 101
Title: 33: Navigation and Navigable Waters - Sections changed: 1
Title: 40: Protection of Environment - Sections changed: 26
Title: 42: Public Health - Sections changed: 1
Title: 49: Transportation - Sections changed: 23

cfr/title-21-Food-Drugs/chapter-I-Food-Drug-Administration-Department-Health-Human-Services/subchapter-E-Animal-Drugs-Feeds-Related-Products/part-522-Implantation-Injectable-Dosage-Form-New-Animal-Drugs/section-522.2615.md, after:

##### § 522.2615 Tripelennamine. #####

(a) *Specifications.* Each milliliter of solution contains 20 milligrams (mg) of tripelennamine hydrochloride.

(b) *Sponsors.* See Nos. 016592 and 051031 in § 510.600(c) of this chapter.

(c) *Related tolerances.* See § 556.741 of this chapter.

(d) *Conditions of use*—(1) *Dogs and cats*—(i) *Amount.* Administer 0.5 mg per pound of body weight by intramuscular injection.

(ii) *Indications for use.* For use in treating conditions in which antihistaminic therapy may be expected to lead to alleviation of some signs of disease.

(iii) *Limitations.* Federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian.

(2) *Horses*—(i) *Amount.* Administer 0.5 mg per pound of body weight by intramuscular injection.

(ii) *Indications for use.* For use in treating conditions in which antihistaminic therapy may be expected to lead to alleviation of some signs of disease.

(iii) *Limitations.* Do not use in horses intended for human consumption. Federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian.

(3) *Cattle*—(i) *Amount.* Administer 0.5 mg per pound of body weight by intravenous or intramuscular injection.

(ii) *Indications for use.* For use in treating conditions in which antihistaminic therapy may be expected to lead to alleviation of some signs of disease.

(iii) *Limitations.* Milk taken during treatment and for 24 hours after the last treatment must not be used for human consumption. Cattle must not be slaughtered for human consumption within 4 days following the last treatment with this drug product. Not for use in beef calves less than 2 months of age, dairy calves, and veal calves. A withdrawal period has not been established for this product in pre-ruminating calves. Federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian.

[51 FR 44450, Dec. 10, 1986, as amended at 61 FR 29480, June 11, 1996; 62 FR 4164, Jan. 29, 1997; 78 FR 17597, Mar. 22, 2013; 79 FR 16198, Mar. 25, 2014; 81 FR 22524, Apr. 18, 2016; 82 FR 11508, Feb. 24, 2017; 87 FR 58962, Sept. 29, 2022]
