##### 803.204 Treatment of violations. #####

In providing the notice and hearing required by FAR 3.204, the SPE may make the determinations required by FAR 3.204. This authority is further delegated to the DSPE. The DSPE shall use the following procedures to determine whether or not a violation of the Gratuities clause has occurred:

(a) Upon receipt of an allegation or evidence of a violation of the Gratuities clause, the DSPE shall refer the matter to the D&S Committee to conduct a fact-finding. Upon completion of the fact-finding, the D&S Committee shall present the facts and recommendations for further action to the DSPE.

(b) If the DSPE finds a basis for further action, the D&S Committee shall prepare a notice under FAR 3.204 for signature of the DSPE. If suspension or debarment is also being considered, the D&S Committee shall also follow the procedures contained in 809.4. The signed notice will be sent to the last known address of the contractor, the contractor's counsel, or agent for service of process, by certified mail, return receipt requested, or any other method that provides signed evidence of receipt. In the case of a business, the D&S Committee may send the notice to any partner, principal, officer, director, owner or co-owner, or joint venture.

(c) If VA does not receive a reply from the contractor within 45 calendar days of sending the notice, the D&S Committee will prepare a recommendation and refer the case to the DSPE for a decision on whether or not to take further action under FAR 3.204.

(d) If VA receives a reply from the contractor within 45 calendar days of sending the notice, the D&S Committee must consider the information in the reply before the D&S Committee makes its recommendation to the DSPE.

(e) The D&S Committee, upon the request of the contractor, must, as soon as practicable, allow the contractor an opportunity to appear before the D&S Committee, in person or through a representative, to present information or argument. The contractor may supplement the oral presentation with written information and argument. The proceeding will be conducted in an informal manner and without requirement for a transcript. The D&S Committee shall prepare a report of the presentation for submission to the DSPE and must consider the information presented when making its recommendation to the DSPE.

(f) If the D&S Committee finds that the contractor's submission in opposition to further action under FAR 3.204 raises a genuine dispute over facts material to the action, then the D&S Committee shall submit to the DSPE the information establishing the dispute of material facts. If the DSPE agrees that there is a genuine dispute of material facts, the DSPE shall refer the dispute to a designee for resolution under 809.470. The DSPE may reject the findings of the fact-finding official only if the findings are clearly erroneous or arbitrary and capricious.

(g) If there are no disputes over material facts or if all disputes over material facts have been resolved under 809.470, the DSPE will make a decision on the basis of all information available, including findings of facts and oral or written arguments presented or submitted to the D & S Committee by the contractor. The DSPE should consider any mitigating factors, such as those listed at FAR 9.406-1 and 809.406-1, prior to making a final decision.