cfr/title-09-Animals-Animal-Products/chapter-I-Animal-Plant-Health-Inspection-Service-Department-Agriculture/subchapter-E-Viruses-Serums-Toxins-Analogous-Products-Organisms-Vectors/part-121-Possession-Use-Transfer-Select-Agents-Toxins/section-121.6.md, before:

##### § 121.6 Exemptions for overlap select agents and toxins. #####

Link to an amendment published at 82 FR 6208, Jan. 19, 2017.This amendment was delayed until Mar. 21, 2017, at 82 FR 10855, Feb. 16, 2017.

(a) Clinical or diagnostic laboratories and other entities that possess, use, or transfer an overlap select agent or toxin that is contained in a specimen presented for diagnosis or verification will be exempt from the requirements of this part for such agent or toxin contained in the specimen, provided that:

(1) Unless directed otherwise by the Administrator or the HHS Secretary, within 7 calendar days after identification, the agent or toxin is transferred in accordance with § 121.16 or 42 CFR 73.16 or destroyed on-site by a recognized sterilization or inactivation process;

(2) The agent or toxin is secured against theft, loss, or release during the period between identification of the agent or toxin and transfer or destruction of such agent or toxin, and any theft, loss, or release of such agent or toxin is reported; and

(3) The identification of the agent or toxin is reported to APHIS or CDC.

(i) The identification of any of the following overlap select agents and toxins must be immediately reported by telephone, facsimile, or e-mail: *Bacillus anthracis, Burkholderia mallei,* or *Burkholderia pseudomallei.* This report must be followed by submission of APHIS/CDC Form 4 within 7 calendar days after identification.

(ii) For all other overlap select agents or toxins, APHIS/CDC Form 4 must be submitted within 7 calendar days after identification.

(iii) Less stringent reporting may be required during agricultural emergencies or outbreaks, or in endemic areas.

(iv) A copy of APHIS/CDC Form 4 must be maintained for 3 years.

(b) Clinical or diagnostic laboratories and other entities that possess, use, or transfer an overlap select agent or toxin that is contained in a specimen presented for proficiency testing will be exempt from the requirements of this part for such agent or toxin contained in the specimen, provided that:

(1) Unless directed otherwise by the Administrator or the HHS Secretary, within 90 days of receipt, the agent or toxin is transferred in accordance with § 121.16 or 42 CFR 73.16 or destroyed on-site by a recognized sterilization or inactivation process;

(2) The agent or toxin is secured against theft, loss, or release during the period between identification of the agent or toxin and transfer or destruction of such agent or toxin, and any theft, loss, or release of such agent or toxin is reported; and

(3) The identification of the agent or toxin, and its derivative, is reported to APHIS or CDC. To report the identification of an overlap select agent or toxin, APHIS/CDC Form 4 must be submitted within 90 calendar days of receipt of the agent or toxin. A copy of the completed form must be maintained for 3 years.

(c) Unless the Administrator by order determines that additional regulation of a specific product is necessary to protect animal health or animal products, products that are, bear, or contain overlap select agents or toxins will be exempt from the requirements of this part if the products have been cleared, approved, licensed, or registered pursuant to:

(1) The Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 301 *et seq.*);

(2) Section 351 of Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 262);

(3) The Virus-Serum-Toxin Act (21 U.S.C. 151-159); or

(4) The Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (7 U.S.C. 131 *et seq.*).

(d) After consultation with the HHS Secretary, the Administrator may exempt from the requirements of this part an investigational product that is, bears, or contains an overlap select agent or toxin if such product is being used in an investigation authorized by any Federal law and the Administrator determines that additional regulation under this part is not necessary to protect animal health or animal products.

(1) To apply for an exemption, an individual or entity must submit APHIS/CDC Form 5.

(2) The Administrator will make a determination regarding an exemption within 14 calendar days after receipt of the application and notification that the investigation has been authorized under a Federal law. A written decision granting or denying the exemption will be issued.

(3) The applicant must notify APHIS or CDC when an authorization for an investigation no longer exists. This exemption automatically terminates when such authorization is no longer in effect.

(e) If it is necessary to respond to a domestic or foreign agricultural emergency involving an overlap select agent or toxin, the Administrator may exempt an individual or entity from the requirements, in whole or in part, of this part for up to 30 calendar days. The Administrator may extend the exemption once for an additional 30 days.

(f) Upon request of the Secretary of Health and Human Services, the Administrator may exempt an individual or entity from the requirements, in whole or in part, of this part for up to 30 calendar days if the Secretary of Health and Human Services has granted an exemption for a public health emergency involving an overlap select agent or toxin. The Administrator may extend the exemption once for an additional 30 days.

[70 FR 13284, Mar. 18, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 61331, Oct. 16, 2008; 77 FR 61078, Oct. 5, 2012; 79 FR 26831, May 12, 2014]

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2017-03-21 issue
Title: 5: Administrative Personnel - Sections changed: 34
Title: 14: Aeronautics and Space - Sections changed: 26
Title: 7: Agriculture - Sections changed: 12
Title: 9: Animals and Animal Products - Sections changed: 15
Title: 13: Business Credit and Assistance - Sections changed: 21
Title: 15: Commerce and Foreign Trade - Sections changed: 1
Title: 19: Customs Duties - Sections changed: 14
Title: 34: Education - Sections changed: 29
Title: 10: Energy - Sections changed: 31
Title: 2: Federal Financial Assistance - Sections changed: 1
Title: 21: Food and Drugs - Sections changed: 76
Title: 24: Housing and Urban Development - Sections changed: 1
Title: 26: Internal Revenue - Sections changed: 3
Title: 28: Judicial Administration - Sections changed: 2
Title: 29: Labor - Sections changed: 8
Title: 36: Parks, Forests, and Public Property - Sections changed: 12
Title: 37: Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights - Sections changed: 2
Title: 38: Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief - Sections changed: 4
Title: 40: Protection of Environment - Sections changed: 54
Title: 42: Public Health - Sections changed: 89
Title: 47: Telecommunication - Sections changed: 10
Title: 49: Transportation - Sections changed: 14
Title: 50: Wildlife and Fisheries - Sections changed: 26

cfr/title-09-Animals-Animal-Products/chapter-I-Animal-Plant-Health-Inspection-Service-Department-Agriculture/subchapter-E-Viruses-Serums-Toxins-Analogous-Products-Organisms-Vectors/part-121-Possession-Use-Transfer-Select-Agents-Toxins/section-121.6.md, after:

##### § 121.6 Exemptions for overlap select agents and toxins. #####

(a) Clinical or diagnostic laboratories and other entities that possess, use, or transfer an overlap select agent or toxin that is contained in a specimen presented for diagnosis or verification will be exempt from the requirements of this part for such agent or toxin contained in the specimen, provided that:

(1) Unless directed otherwise by the Administrator, within 7 calendar days after identification of the select agent or toxin, the select agent or toxin is transferred in accordance with § 121.16 or destroyed on-site by a recognized sterilization or inactivation process;

(2) The agent or toxin is secured against theft, loss, or release during the period between identification of the agent or toxin and transfer or destruction of such agent or toxin, and any theft, loss, or release of such agent or toxin is reported;

(3) Unless otherwise directed by the Administrator or HHS Secretary, the clinical or diagnostic specimens collected from a patient infected with a select agent are transferred in accordance with § 121.16 or destroyed on-site by a recognized sterilization or inactivation process within 7 calendar days after delivery of patient care by heath care professionals has concluded; and

(4) The identification of the agent or toxin is reported to APHIS or CDC, the specimen provider, and to other appropriate authorities when required by Federal, State, or local law by telephone, facsimile, or email. This report must be followed by submission of APHIS/CDC Form 4 to APHIS or CDC within 7 calendar days after identification.

(b) Clinical or diagnostic laboratories and other entities that possess, use, or transfer an overlap select agent or toxin that is contained in a specimen presented for proficiency testing will be exempt from the requirements of this part for such agent or toxin contained in the specimen, provided that:

(1) Unless directed otherwise by the Administrator or the HHS Secretary, within 90 days of receipt, the agent or toxin is transferred in accordance with § 121.16 or 42 CFR 73.16 or destroyed on-site by a recognized sterilization or inactivation process;

(2) The agent or toxin is secured against theft, loss, or release during the period between identification of the agent or toxin and transfer or destruction of such agent or toxin, and any theft, loss, or release of such agent or toxin is reported; and

(3) The identification of the agent or toxin, and its derivative, is reported to APHIS or CDC. To report the identification of an overlap select agent or toxin, APHIS/CDC Form 4 must be submitted within 90 calendar days of receipt of the agent or toxin. A copy of the completed form must be maintained for 3 years.

(c) Unless the Administrator by order determines that additional regulation of a specific product is necessary to protect animal health or animal products, products that are, bear, or contain overlap select agents or toxins will be exempt from the requirements of this part if the products have been cleared, approved, licensed, or registered pursuant to:

(1) The Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 301 *et seq.*);

(2) Section 351 of Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 262);

(3) The Virus-Serum-Toxin Act (21 U.S.C. 151-159); or

(4) The Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (7 U.S.C. 131 *et seq.*).

(d) After consultation with the HHS Secretary, the Administrator may exempt from the requirements of this part an investigational product that is, bears, or contains an overlap select agent or toxin if such product is being used in an investigation authorized by any Federal law and the Administrator determines that additional regulation under this part is not necessary to protect animal health or animal products.

(1) To apply for an exemption, an individual or entity must submit APHIS/CDC Form 5.

(2) The Administrator will make a determination regarding an exemption within 14 calendar days after receipt of the application and notification that the investigation has been authorized under a Federal law. A written decision granting or denying the exemption will be issued.

(3) The applicant must notify APHIS or CDC when an authorization for an investigation no longer exists. This exemption automatically terminates when such authorization is no longer in effect.

(e) If it is necessary to respond to a domestic or foreign agricultural emergency involving an overlap select agent or toxin, the Administrator may exempt an individual or entity from the requirements, in whole or in part, of this part for up to 30 calendar days. The Administrator may extend the exemption once for an additional 30 days.

(f) Upon request of the Secretary of Health and Human Services, the Administrator may exempt an individual or entity from the requirements, in whole or in part, of this part for up to 30 calendar days if the Secretary of Health and Human Services has granted an exemption for a public health emergency involving an overlap select agent or toxin. The Administrator may extend the exemption once for an additional 30 days.

[70 FR 13284, Mar. 18, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 61331, Oct. 16, 2008; 77 FR 61078, Oct. 5, 2012; 79 FR 26831, May 12, 2014; 82 FR 6208, Jan. 19, 2017]
