cfr/title-12-Banks-Banking/chapter-I-Comptroller-Currency-Department-Treasury/part-25-Community-Reinvestment-Act-Interstate-Deposit-Production-Regulations/subpart-A-General/section-25.11.md, before:

##### § 25.11 Authority, purposes, and scope. #####

Link to an amendment published at 89 FR 7166, Feb. 1, 2024.

(a) *Authority and OMB control number*—(1) *Authority.* The authority for subparts A, B, C, D, and E is 12 U.S.C. 21, 22, 26, 27, 30, 36, 93a, 161, 215, 215a, 481, 1462a, 1463, 1464, 1814, 1816, 1828(c), 1835a, 2901 through 2908, 3101 through 3111, and 5412(b)(2)(B).

(2) *OMB control number.* The information collection requirements contained in this part were approved by the Office of Management and Budget under the provisions of 44 U.S.C. 3501 *et seq.* and have been assigned OMB control number 1557-0160.

(b) *Purposes.* In enacting the Community Reinvestment Act (CRA), the Congress required each appropriate Federal financial supervisory agency to assess an institution's record of helping to meet the credit needs of the local communities in which the institution is chartered, consistent with the safe and sound operation of the institution, and to take this record into account in the agency's evaluation of an application for a deposit facility by the institution. This part is intended to carry out the purposes of the CRA by:

(1) Establishing the framework and criteria by which the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) or the Federal deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), as appropriate, assesses a bank's or savings association's record of helping to meet the credit needs of its entire community, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods, consistent with the safe and sound operation of the bank or savings association; and

(2) Providing that the OCC takes that record into account in considering certain applications.

(c) *Scope*—(1) *General.* (i) Subparts A, B, C, and D, and Appendices A and B, apply to all banks and savings associations except as provided in paragraphs (c)(2) and (3) of this section. Subpart E only applies to banks.

(ii) With respect to subparts A, B, C, and D, and Appendices A and B—

(A) The OCC has the authority to prescribe these regulations for national banks, Federal savings associations, and State savings associations and has the authority to enforce these regulations for national banks and Federal savings associations.

(B) The FDIC has the authority to enforce these regulations for State savings associations.

(iii) With respect to subparts A, B, C, and D, and appendix A, references to appropriate Federal banking agency will mean the OCC when the institution is a national bank or Federal savings association and the FDIC when the institution is a State savings association.

(2) *Federal branches and agencies.* (i) This part applies to all insured Federal branches and to any Federal branch that is uninsured that results from an acquisition described in section 5(a)(8) of the International Banking Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 3103(a)(8)).

(ii) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section, this part does not apply to Federal branches that are uninsured, limited Federal branches, or Federal agencies, as those terms are defined in part 28 of this chapter.

(3) *Certain special purpose banks and savings associations.* This part does not apply to special purpose banks or special purpose savings associations that do not perform commercial or retail banking services by granting credit to the public in the ordinary course of business, other than as incident to their specialized operations. These banks or savings associations include banker's banks, as defined in 12 U.S.C. 24 (Seventh), and banks or savings associations that engage only in one or more of the following activities: Providing cash management controlled disbursement services or serving as correspondent banks or savings associations, trust companies, or clearing agents.

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2024-04-01 issue
Title: 5: Administrative Personnel - Sections changed: 10
Title: 14: Aeronautics and Space - Sections changed: 14
Title: 8: Aliens and Nationality - Sections changed: 28
Title: 12: Banks and Banking - Sections changed: 415
Title: 15: Commerce and Foreign Trade - Sections changed: 1
Title: 16: Commercial Practices - Sections changed: 3
Title: 29: Labor - Sections changed: 3
Title: 33: Navigation and Navigable Waters - Sections changed: 1
Title: 39: Postal Service - Sections changed: 2
Title: 40: Protection of Environment - Sections changed: 8
Title: 46: Shipping - Sections changed: 1
Title: 50: Wildlife and Fisheries - Sections changed: 16

cfr/title-12-Banks-Banking/chapter-I-Comptroller-Currency-Department-Treasury/part-25-Community-Reinvestment-Act-Interstate-Deposit-Production-Regulations/subpart-A-General/section-25.11.md, after:

##### § 25.11 Authority, purposes, and scope. #####

(a) *Authority.* The authority for this part is 12 U.S.C. 21, 22, 26, 27, 30, 36, 93a, 161, 215, 215a, 481, 1462a, 1463, 1464, 1814, 1816, 1828(c), 1835a, 2901 through 2908, 3101 through 3111, and 5412(b)(2)(B).

(b) *Purposes.* This part implements the requirement in the Community Reinvestment Act (12 U.S.C. 2901 *et seq.*) (CRA) that the appropriate Federal banking agency assess a bank's or savings association's record of helping to meet the credit needs of the local communities in which the bank or savings association is chartered, consistent with the safe and sound operation of the bank or savings association, and to take this record into account in the agency's evaluation of an application for a deposit facility by the bank or savings association. Accordingly, this part:

(1) Establishes the framework and criteria by which the appropriate Federal banking agency assesses a bank's or savings association's record of responding to the credit needs of its entire community, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods, consistent with the safe and sound operation of the bank or savings association; and

(2) Provides that the appropriate Federal banking agency takes that record into account in considering certain applications.

(c) *Scope*—(1) *General.* (i) This subpart, subparts B through E of this part, and appendices A through G to this part apply to all banks and savings associations except as provided in paragraphs (c)(2) and (3) of this section. Subpart F of this part only applies to banks.

(ii) With respect to this subpart, subparts B through E of this part, and appendices A through F to this part:

(A) The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) has the authority to prescribe the regulations in this part for national banks, Federal savings associations, Federal branches of foreign banks, and State savings associations and has the authority to enforce the regulations in this part for national banks, Federal branches of foreign banks, and Federal savings associations; and

(B) The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) has the authority to enforce the regulations in this part for State savings associations.

(2) *Federal branches and agencies.* (i) This part applies to all insured Federal branches and to any Federal branch that is uninsured that results from an acquisition described in section 5(a)(8) of the International Banking Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 3103(a)(8)).

(ii) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section, this part does not apply to uninsured Federal branches, limited Federal branches, or Federal agencies, as those terms are defined or used in part 28 of this chapter.

(3) *Certain special purpose banks and savings associations.* This part does not apply to special purpose banks or special purpose savings associations that do not perform commercial or retail banking services by granting credit to the public in the ordinary course of business, other than as incident to their specialized operations. These banks or savings associations include banker's banks, as defined in 12 U.S.C. 24(Seventh), and banks or savings associations that engage only in one or more of the following activities: providing cash management controlled disbursement services or serving as correspondent banks or savings associations, trust companies, or clearing agents.

[89 FR 7165, Feb. 1, 2024, as amended at 89 FR 7166, Feb. 1, 2024]
