##### ยง 2201.21 Fees. #####

(a) *Application Fee.* The Board shall charge each Applicant for a Guarantee under the Program a non-refundable fee, payable to the United States Treasury, to cover the costs of making necessary determinations and findings with respect to an application for a Guarantee under the Program. The amount of the fee is $10,000 for Loans of $1 million up to $50 million, $15,000 for Loans of $50 million up to $100 million, $30,000 for Loans of $100 million up to $500 million, and $40,000 for Loans of $500 million or greater.

(b) *Guarantee Origination Fee.* The Board shall charge and collect from a Borrower a Guarantee Origination Fee. The amount of such fee will be sufficient to cover the administrative costs of the Board associated with the Loan. Upon extending an offer of Guarantee, the Board and the Borrower shall enter into an agreement providing for the payment of the Guarantee Origination Fee; the agreement shall include terms relating to the schedule of payments and deposit of such payments into an escrow account. The Guarantee Origination Fee must be paid in full no later than and as a condition of the closing of any Loan. A Borrower will be responsible for paying the administrative costs of the Board regardless of whether the Loan actually closes.

(c) *Lender Fees.* A Lender or Agent may assess and collect from the Borrower such fees and costs associated with the application and origination of the Loan as are reasonable and customary, taking into consideration the amount and complexity of the credit. The Board may take such fees and costs into consideration when determining whether to offer a Guarantee.