##### § 441.354 Aggregate projected expenditure limit (APEL). #####

(a) *Definitions.* For purposes of this section, the term *base year* means—

(1) Federal fiscal year (FFY) 1987 (that is, October 1, 1986 through September 30, 1987); or

(2) In the case of a State which did not report expenditures on the basis of age categories during FFY 1987, the base year means FFY 1989 (that is, October 1, 1988 through September 30, 1989).

(b) *General.* (1) The total amount expended by the State for medical assistance with respect to NF, home and community-based services under the waiver, home health services, personal care services, private duty nursing services, and services furnished under a waiver under subpart G of this part to individuals age 65 or older furnished as an alternative to care in an SNF or ICF (NF effective October 1, 1990), may not exceed the APEL calculated in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.

(2) In applying for a waiver under this subpart, the agency must clearly identify the base year it intends to use.

(3) The State may make a preliminary calculation of the expenditure limit at the time of the waiver approval; however, CMS makes final calculations of the aggregate limit after base data have been verified and accepted.

(4) All base year and waiver year data are subject to final cost settlement within 2 years from the end of the base or waiver year involved.

(c) *Formula for calculating APEL.* Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, the formula for calculating the APEL follows:

APEL = P × (1 + Y) + V × (1 + Z), where P = The aggregate amount of the State's medical assistance under title XIX for SNF and ICF (NF effective October 1, 1990) services furnished to individuals who have reached age 65, defined as the total medical assistance payments (Federal and State) reported on line 6 of form CMS 64 (as adjusted) for SNF services, ICF-other services, and mental health facility services for the base year, multiplied by the ratio of expenditures for SNF and ICF-other services for the aged to total expenditures for these services as reported on form CMS 2082 for the base year. Q = The market basket index for SNF and ICF (NF effective October 1, 1990) services for the waiver year involved, defined as the total SNF Input Price Index used in the Medicare program, identified as the third quarter data available from CMS's Office of National Cost Estimates in August preceding the start of the fiscal year. R = The SNF Input Price Index for the base year. S = The number of residents in the State in the waiver year involved who have reached age 65, defined as the number of aged Medicare beneficiaries in the State, equal to the Mid-Period Enrollment in HI or SMI in that State on July 1 preceding the start of the fiscal year. T = The number of aged Medicare beneficiaries in the State who are enrolled in either the HI or SMI programs in the base year, as defined in S, above. U = The number of years beginning after the base year and ending on the last day of the waiver year involved. V = The aggregate amount of the State's medical assistance under title XIX in the base year for home and community-based services for individuals who have reached age 65, defined as the total medical assistance payments (Federal and State) reported on line 6 of form CMS 64 (as adjusted) for home health, personal care, and home and community-based services waivers, which provide services as an alternative to care in a SNF or ICF (NF effective October 1, 1990), increased by an estimate (acceptable to CMS) of expenditures for private duty nursing services, multiplied by the ratio of expenditures for home health services for the aged to total expenditures for home health services, as reported on form CMS 2082, for the base year. W = The market basket index for home and community-based services for the waiver year involved, defined as the Home Agency Input Price Index, used in the Medicare program identified as the third quarter data available from CMS's Office of National Cost Estimates in August preceding the start of the fiscal year. X = The Home Health Agency Input Price Index for the base year. Y = The greater of— (U × .07), or (Q/R)-1 + (S/T)-1 + (U × .02). Z = The greater of— (U × .07), or (W/X)-1 + (S/T)-1 + + (U × .02).

(d) *Amendment of the APEL.* The State may request amendment of its APEL to reflect an increase in the aggregate amount of medical assistance for NF services and for services included in the calculation of the APEL as required by paragraph (c) of this section when the increase is directly attributable to legislation enacted on or after December 22, 1987, which amends title XIX of the Act. Costs attributable to laws enacted before December 22, 1987 will not be considered. Because the APEL for each year of the waiver is computed separately from the APEL for any other waiver year, a separate amendment must be submitted for each year in which the State chooses to raise its APEL. Documentation specific to the waiver year involved must be submitted to CMS.