cfr/title-42-Public-Health/chapter-IV-Centers-Medicare-amp-Medicaid-Services-Department-Health-Human-Services/subchapter-B-Medicare-Program/part-422-Medicare-Advantage-Program/subpart-A-General-Provisions/section-422.4.md, before:

##### § 422.4 Types of MA plans. #####

Link to an amendment published at 89 FR 30814, Apr. 23, 2024.

(a) *General rule.* An MA plan may be a coordinated care plan, a combination of an MA MSA plan and a contribution into an MA MSA established in accordance with § 422.262, or an MA private fee-for-service plan.

(1) *A coordinated care plan.* A coordinated care plan is a plan that includes a network of providers that are under contract or arrangement with the organization to deliver the benefit package approved by CMS.

(i) The network is approved by CMS to ensure that all applicable requirements are met, including access and availability, service area, and quality.

(ii) Coordinated care plans may include mechanisms to control utilization, such as referrals from a gatekeeper for an enrollee to receive services within the plan, and financial arrangements that offer incentives to providers to furnish high quality and cost-effective care.

(iii) Coordinated care plans include plans offered by any of the following:

(A) Health maintenance organizations (HMOs);

(B) Provider-sponsored organizations (PSOs), subject to paragraph (a)(1)(vi) of this section.

(C) Regional or local preferred provider organizations (PPOs) as specified in paragraph (a)(1)(v) of this section.

(D) Other network plans (except PFFS plans).

(iv) A specialized MA plan for special needs individuals (SNP) includes any type of coordinated care plan that meets CMS's SNP requirements and exclusively enrolls special needs individuals as defined by § 422.2 of this subpart. All MA plans wishing to offer a SNP will be required to be approved by the National Commission on Quality Assurance (NCQA) effective January 1, 2012. This approval process applies to existing SNPs as well as new SNPs joining the program. All SNPs must submit their model of care (MOC) to CMS for NCQA evaluation and approval as per CMS guidance.

(v) A PPO plan is a plan that—

(A) Has a network of providers that have agreed to a contractually specified reimbursement for covered benefits with the organization offering the plan;

(B) Provides for reimbursement for all covered benefits regardless of whether the benefits are provided within the network of providers;

(C) Only for purposes of quality assurance requirements in § 422.152(e), is offered by an organization that is not licensed or organized under State law as an HMO; and

(D) Does not permit prior notification for out-of-network services—that is, a reduction in the plan's standard cost-sharing levels when the out-of-network provider from whom an enrollee is receiving plan-covered services voluntarily notifies the plan prior to furnishing those services, or the enrollee voluntarily notifies the PPO plan prior to receiving plan-covered services from an out-of-network provider.

(vi) In accordance with § 422.370, CMS does not waive the State licensure requirement for organizations seeking to offer a PSO.

(2) *A combination of an MA MSA plan and a contribution into the MA MSA established in accordance with § 422.262.* (i) *MA MSA plan* means a plan that—

(A) Pays at least for the services described in § 422.101, after the enrollee has incurred countable expenses (as specified in the plan) equal in amount to the annual deductible specified in § 422.103(d);

(B) Does not permit prior notification—that is, a reduction in the plan's standard cost-sharing levels when the provider from whom an enrollee is receiving plan-covered services voluntarily notifies the plan prior to furnishing those services, or the enrollee voluntarily notifies the MSA plan prior to receiving plan-covered services from a provider; and

(C) Meets all other applicable requirements of this part.

(ii) *MA MSA* means a trust or custodial account—

(A) That is established in conjunction with an MSA plan for the purpose of paying the qualified expenses of the account holder; and

(B) Into which no deposits are made other than contributions by CMS under the MA program, or a trustee-to-trustee transfer or rollover from another MA MSA of the same account holder, in accordance with the requirements of sections 138 and 220 of the Internal Revenue Code.

(3) *MA private fee-for-service plan.* An MA private fee-for-service plan is an MA plan that—

(i) Pays providers of services at a rate determined by the plan on a fee-for-service basis without placing the provider at financial risk;

(ii) Subject to paragraphs (a)(3)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section, does not vary the rates for a provider based on the utilization of that provider's services; and

(A) May vary the rates for a provider based on the specialty of the provider, the location of the provider, or other factors related to the provider that are not related to utilization and do not violate § 422.205 of this part.

(B) May increase the rates for a provider based on increased utilization of specified preventive or screening services.

(iii) Does not restrict enrollees' choices among providers that are lawfully authorized to provide services and agree to accept the plan's terms and conditions of payment.

(iv) Does not permit prior notification—that is, a reduction in the plan's standard cost-sharing levels when the provider from whom an enrollee is receiving plan-covered services voluntarily notifies the plan prior to furnishing those services, or the enrollee voluntarily notifies the PFFS plan prior to receiving plan-covered services from a provider.

(b) *Multiple plans.* Under its contract, an MA organization may offer multiple plans, regardless of type, provided that the MA organization is licensed or approved under State law to provide those types of plans (or, in the case of a PSO plan, has received from CMS a waiver of the State licensing requirement). If an MA organization has received a waiver for the licensing requirement to offer a PSO plan, that waiver does not apply to the licensing requirement for any other type of MA plan.

(c) *Rule for MA Plans' Part D coverage.* (1) Coordinated care plans. In order to offer an MA coordinated care plan in an area, the MA organization offering the coordinated care plan must offer qualified Part D coverage meeting the requirements in § 423.104 of this chapter in that plan or in another MA plan in the same area.

(2) *MSAs.* MA organizations offering MSA plans are not permitted to offer prescription drug coverage, other than that required under Parts A and B of Title XVIII of the Act.

(3) *Private Fee-For-Service.* MA organizations offering private fee-for-service plans can choose to offer qualified Part D coverage meeting the requirements in § 423.104 in that plan.

[63 FR 35068, June 26, 1998, as amended at 65 FR 40315, June 29, 2000; 70 FR 4714, Jan. 28, 2005; 70 FR 52026, Sept. 1, 2005; 73 FR 54248, Sept. 18, 2008; 74 FR 1541, Jan. 12, 2009; 75 FR 19804, Apr. 15, 2010; 76 FR 21561, Apr. 15, 2011]

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2024-06-03 issue
Title: 17: Commodity and Securities Exchanges - Sections changed: 97
Title: 18: Conservation of Power and Water Resources - Sections changed: 23
Title: 20: Employees' Benefits - Sections changed: 68
Title: 48: Federal Acquisition Regulations System - Sections changed: 187
Title: 21: Food and Drugs - Sections changed: 318
Title: 24: Housing and Urban Development - Sections changed: 40
Title: 33: Navigation and Navigable Waters - Sections changed: 244
Title: 36: Parks, Forests, and Public Property - Sections changed: 50
Title: 40: Protection of Environment - Sections changed: 3626
Title: 42: Public Health - Sections changed: 190
Title: 45: Public Welfare - Sections changed: 37
Title: 47: Telecommunication - Sections changed: 326
Title: 49: Transportation - Sections changed: 417
Title: 50: Wildlife and Fisheries - Sections changed: 333

cfr/title-42-Public-Health/chapter-IV-Centers-Medicare-amp-Medicaid-Services-Department-Health-Human-Services/subchapter-B-Medicare-Program/part-422-Medicare-Advantage-Program/subpart-A-General-Provisions/section-422.4.md, after:

##### § 422.4 Types of MA plans. #####

(a) *General rule.* An MA plan may be a coordinated care plan, a combination of an MA MSA plan and a contribution into an MA MSA established in accordance with § 422.262, or an MA private fee-for-service plan.

(1) *A coordinated care plan.* A coordinated care plan is a plan that includes a network of providers that are under contract or arrangement with the organization to deliver the benefit package approved by CMS.

(i) The network is approved by CMS to ensure that all applicable requirements are met, including access and availability, service area, and quality.

(ii) Coordinated care plans may include mechanisms to control utilization, such as referrals from a gatekeeper for an enrollee to receive services within the plan, and financial arrangements that offer incentives to providers to furnish high quality and cost-effective care.

(iii) Coordinated care plans include plans offered by any of the following:

(A) Health maintenance organizations (HMOs);

(B) Provider-sponsored organizations (PSOs), subject to paragraph (a)(1)(vi) of this section.

(C) Regional or local preferred provider organizations (PPOs) as specified in paragraph (a)(1)(v) of this section.

(D) Other network plans (except PFFS plans).

(iv) A specialized MA plan for special needs individuals (SNP) includes any type of coordinated care plan that meets CMS's SNP requirements and exclusively enrolls special needs individuals as defined by § 422.2 of this subpart. All MA plans wishing to offer a SNP will be required to be approved by the National Commission on Quality Assurance (NCQA) effective January 1, 2012. This approval process applies to existing SNPs as well as new SNPs joining the program. All SNPs must submit their model of care (MOC) to CMS for NCQA evaluation and approval as per CMS guidance.

(A) A C-SNP may focus on one severe or disabling chronic condition, as defined in § 422.2, or on a grouping of severe or disabling chronic conditions.

(B) Upon CMS approval, an MA organization may offer a C-SNP that focuses on multiple commonly co-morbid and clinically linked conditions from the following list of groupings:

(*1*) Diabetes mellitus and chronic heart failure.

(*2*) Chronic heart failure and cardiovascular disorders.

(*3*) Diabetes mellitus and cardiovascular disorders.

(*4*) Diabetes mellitus, chronic heart failure, and cardiovascular disorders.

(*5*) Stroke and cardiovascular disorders.

(*6*) Anxiety associated with COPD.

(*7*) Chronic kidney disease (CKD) and post-(renal) organ transplantation.

(*8*) Substance use disorders (SUD) and chronic mental health disorders.

(v) A PPO plan is a plan that—

(A) Has a network of providers that have agreed to a contractually specified reimbursement for covered benefits with the organization offering the plan;

(B) Provides for reimbursement for all covered benefits regardless of whether the benefits are provided within the network of providers;

(C) Only for purposes of quality assurance requirements in § 422.152(e), is offered by an organization that is not licensed or organized under State law as an HMO; and

(D) Does not permit prior notification for out-of-network services—that is, a reduction in the plan's standard cost-sharing levels when the out-of-network provider from whom an enrollee is receiving plan-covered services voluntarily notifies the plan prior to furnishing those services, or the enrollee voluntarily notifies the PPO plan prior to receiving plan-covered services from an out-of-network provider.

(vi) In accordance with § 422.370, CMS does not waive the State licensure requirement for organizations seeking to offer a PSO.

(2) *A combination of an MA MSA plan and a contribution into the MA MSA established in accordance with § 422.262.* (i) *MA MSA plan* means a plan that—

(A) Pays at least for the services described in § 422.101, after the enrollee has incurred countable expenses (as specified in the plan) equal in amount to the annual deductible specified in § 422.103(d);

(B) Does not permit prior notification—that is, a reduction in the plan's standard cost-sharing levels when the provider from whom an enrollee is receiving plan-covered services voluntarily notifies the plan prior to furnishing those services, or the enrollee voluntarily notifies the MSA plan prior to receiving plan-covered services from a provider; and

(C) Meets all other applicable requirements of this part.

(ii) *MA MSA* means a trust or custodial account—

(A) That is established in conjunction with an MSA plan for the purpose of paying the qualified expenses of the account holder; and

(B) Into which no deposits are made other than contributions by CMS under the MA program, or a trustee-to-trustee transfer or rollover from another MA MSA of the same account holder, in accordance with the requirements of sections 138 and 220 of the Internal Revenue Code.

(3) *MA private fee-for-service plan.* An MA private fee-for-service plan is an MA plan that—

(i) Pays providers of services at a rate determined by the plan on a fee-for-service basis without placing the provider at financial risk;

(ii) Subject to paragraphs (a)(3)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section, does not vary the rates for a provider based on the utilization of that provider's services; and

(A) May vary the rates for a provider based on the specialty of the provider, the location of the provider, or other factors related to the provider that are not related to utilization and do not violate § 422.205 of this part.

(B) May increase the rates for a provider based on increased utilization of specified preventive or screening services.

(iii) Does not restrict enrollees' choices among providers that are lawfully authorized to provide services and agree to accept the plan's terms and conditions of payment.

(iv) Does not permit prior notification—that is, a reduction in the plan's standard cost-sharing levels when the provider from whom an enrollee is receiving plan-covered services voluntarily notifies the plan prior to furnishing those services, or the enrollee voluntarily notifies the PFFS plan prior to receiving plan-covered services from a provider.

(b) *Multiple plans.* Under its contract, an MA organization may offer multiple plans, regardless of type, provided that the MA organization is licensed or approved under State law to provide those types of plans (or, in the case of a PSO plan, has received from CMS a waiver of the State licensing requirement). If an MA organization has received a waiver for the licensing requirement to offer a PSO plan, that waiver does not apply to the licensing requirement for any other type of MA plan.

(c) *Rule for MA Plans' Part D coverage.* (1) Coordinated care plans. In order to offer an MA coordinated care plan in an area, the MA organization offering the coordinated care plan must offer qualified Part D coverage meeting the requirements in § 423.104 of this chapter in that plan or in another MA plan in the same area.

(2) *MSAs.* MA organizations offering MSA plans are not permitted to offer prescription drug coverage, other than that required under Parts A and B of Title XVIII of the Act.

(3) *Private Fee-For-Service.* MA organizations offering private fee-for-service plans can choose to offer qualified Part D coverage meeting the requirements in § 423.104 in that plan.

[63 FR 35068, June 26, 1998, as amended at 65 FR 40315, June 29, 2000; 70 FR 4714, Jan. 28, 2005; 70 FR 52026, Sept. 1, 2005; 73 FR 54248, Sept. 18, 2008; 74 FR 1541, Jan. 12, 2009; 75 FR 19804, Apr. 15, 2010; 76 FR 21561, Apr. 15, 2011; 89 FR 30814, Apr. 23, 2024]
