##### § 274a.13 Application for employment authorization. #####

Link to an amendment published at 89 FR 101267, Dec. 13, 2024.

(a) *Application.* An alien requesting employment authorization or an Employment Authorization Document (Form I-766), or both, may be required to apply on a form designated by USCIS with any prescribed fee(s) in accordance with the form instructions. An alien may file such request concurrently with a related benefit request that, if granted, would form the basis for eligibility for employment authorization, only to the extent permitted by the form instructions or as announced by USCIS on its Web site.

(1) The approval of applications filed under 8 CFR 274a.12(c), except for 8 CFR 274a.12(c)(8), are within the discretion of USCIS. Where economic necessity has been identified as a factor, the alien must provide information regarding his or her assets, income, and expenses.

(2) An initial employment authorization request for asylum applicants under 8 CFR 274a.12(c)(8) must be filed on the form designated by USCIS in accordance with the form instructions. The applicant also must submit a copy of the underlying application for asylum or withholding of deportation, together with evidence that the application has been filed in accordance with 8 CFR 208.3 and 208.4. An application for an initial employment authorization or for a renewal of employment authorization filed in relation to a pending claim for asylum shall be adjudicated in accordance with 8 CFR 208.7. An application for renewal or replacement of employment authorization submitted in relation to a pending claim for asylum, as provided in 8 CFR 208.7, must be filed, with fee or application for waiver of such fee.

(b) *Approval of application.* If the application is granted, the alien shall be notified of the decision and issued an employment authorization document valid for a specific period and subject to any terms and conditions as noted.

(c) *Denial of application.* If the application is denied, the applicant shall be notified in writing of the decision and the reasons for the denial. There shall be no appeal from the denial of the application.

(d) *Renewal application*—(1) *Automatic extension of Employment Authorization Documents.* Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or by law, notwithstanding 8 CFR 274a.14(a)(1)(i), the validity period of an expiring Employment Authorization Document (Form I-766) and, for aliens who are not employment authorized incident to status, also the attendant employment authorization, will be automatically extended for an additional period not to exceed 180 days from the date of such document's and such employment authorization's expiration if a request for renewal on a form designated by USCIS is:

(i) Properly filed as provided by form instructions before the expiration date shown on the face of the Employment Authorization Document, or during the filing period described in the applicable Federal Register notice regarding procedures for obtaining Temporary Protected Status-related EADs;

(ii) Based on the same employment authorization category as shown on the face of the expiring Employment Authorization Document or is for an individual approved for Temporary Protected Status whose EAD was issued pursuant to 8 CFR 274a.12(c)(19); and

(iii) Based on a class of aliens whose eligibility to apply for employment authorization continues notwithstanding expiration of the Employment Authorization Document and is based on an employment authorization category that does not require adjudication of an underlying application or petition before adjudication of the renewal application, including aliens described in 8 CFR 274a.12(a)(12) granted Temporary Protected Status and pending applicants for Temporary Protected Status who are issued an EAD under 8 CFR 274a.12(c)(19), as may be announced on the USCIS Web site.

(2) *Terms and conditions.* Any extension authorized under this paragraph (d) shall be subject to any conditions and limitations noted in the immediately preceding employment authorization.

(3) *Termination.* The period authorized by paragraph (d)(1) of this section will automatically terminate the earlier of up to 180 days after the expiration date of the Employment Authorization Document (Form I-766), or upon issuance of notification of a decision denying the renewal request. Nothing in paragraph (d) of this section will affect DHS's ability to otherwise terminate any employment authorization or Employment Authorization Document, or extension period for such employment or document, by written notice to the applicant, by notice to a class of aliens published in the Federal Register, or as provided by statute or regulation including 8 CFR 274a.14.

(4) *Unexpired Employment Authorization Documents.* An Employment Authorization Document (Form I-766) that has expired on its face is considered unexpired when combined with a Notice of Action (Form I-797C), which demonstrates that the requirements of paragraph (d)(1) of this section have been met.

(5) *Temporary increase in the automatic extension period for renewal applications properly filed on or before October 26, 2023.* The authorized extension period stated in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, 8 CFR 274a.2(b)(1)(vii), and referred to in paragraphs (d)(3) and (4) of this section is increased to up to 540 days for all eligible classes of aliens as described in paragraph (d)(1) who properly filed their renewal application on or before October 26, 2023. Such automatic extension period will automatically terminate the earlier of up to 540 days after the expiration date of the Employment Authorization Document (Form I-766, or successor form) or upon issuance of notification of a denial on the renewal request, even if such date is after October 26, 2023. Aliens whose automatic extension under paragraph (d)(1) expired before May 4, 2022, will receive an automatic resumption of employment authorization and the validity of their Employment Authorization Document, as applicable, for an additional period beginning from May 4, 2022, and up to 540 days from the expiration of their employment authorization and/or Employment Authorization Document as shown on the face of such document. An Employment Authorization Document that has expired on its face is considered unexpired when combined with a Notice of Action (Form I-797C), which demonstrates that the requirements of paragraph (d)(1) of this section and this paragraph (d)(5) have been met, notwithstanding any notations on such notice indicating an automatic extension of up to 180 days. Nothing in this paragraph (d)(5) will affect DHS's ability to otherwise terminate any employment authorization or Employment Authorization Document, or extension period for such employment authorization or document, by written notice to the applicant, by notice to a class of aliens published in the Federal Register, or as provided by statute or regulation, including 8 CFR 274a.14.

(6) *Temporary increase in the automatic extension period for renewal applications properly filed on or after October 27, 2023.* The authorized extension period stated in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, 8 CFR 274a.2(b)(1)(vii), and referred to in paragraph (d)(3) and (4) of this section is increased to up to 540 days for all eligible classes of aliens as described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section who properly filed their renewal application on or after October 27, 2023, and on or before September 30, 2025. Such automatic extension period will automatically terminate the earlier of up to 540 days after the expiration date of the Employment Authorization Document (Form I-766, or successor form) or upon issuance of notification of a denial on the renewal request, even if such date is after September 30, 2025. An Employment Authorization Document that has expired on its face is considered unexpired when combined with a Notice of Action (Form I-797C), which demonstrates that the requirements of paragraph (d)(1) of this section and this paragraph (d)(6) have been met, notwithstanding any notations on such notice indicating an automatic extension of up to 180 days. Nothing in this paragraph (d)(6) will affect DHS's ability to otherwise terminate any employment authorization or Employment Authorization Document, or extension period for such employment authorization or document, by written notice to the applicant, by notice to a class of aliens published in the Federal Register, or as provided by statute or regulation, including 8 CFR 274a.14.

[52 FR 16221, May 1, 1987]Editorial Note:For Federal Register citations affecting § 274a.13, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at *www.govinfo.gov.*Effective Date Notes:1. At 87 FR 26651, May 4, 2022, § 274a.13 was amended by adding paragraph (d)(5), effective May 4, 2022, through Oct. 15, 2025.

2. At 89 FR 24676, Apr. 8, 2024, § 274a.13 was amended by revising the heading of paragraph (d)(5), effective Apr. 8, 2024, through Oct. 15, 2025.

3. At 89 FR 24676, Apr. 8, 2024, § 274a.13 was amended by adding paragraph (d)(6), effective Apr. 8, 2024, through Sept. 20, 2027.