##### ยง 399.101 Public release of Board decisions in cases where the action of the Board is subject to the review or approval of the President. #####

(a) By Executive Order 11920, 41 FR 23665 (June 11, 1976), effective July 11, 1976, the President has authorized the issuance for public inspection of decisions by the Board in cases where the action of the Board is subject to the review or approval of the President in accordance with section 801 of the Federal Aviation Act. In the interest of national security, and in order to allow for consideration of appropriate action under Executive Order 11652, Executive Order 11920 provides that decisions shall be withheld from public disclosure for five days after submission to the President but may be released on or after the sixth day following receipt by the President as to all unclassified portions of the text if the Board is not notified by the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs or his designee that all or part of the decision shall be withheld from public disclosure.

(b) It is the policy of the Board to release to the public all decisions by the Board in section 801 cases as promptly as possible following submission of such decision to the President. Upon receipt of notice by the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs as required by the Executive Order, the Board shall promptly provide one copy for public inspection in the Docket Section and one copy for public inspection and copying in the Public Reference Room, and shall promptly thereafter print and process the decision for more general distribution in accordance with Board procedures. Where the Board is required to withhold portions of the text of its decision it shall make public those portions of its decision which may be publicly released. Where the Board is required to withhold public release of its decision in its entirety it shall nonetheless publicly indicate that its decision has been transmitted to the President. The Board shall not publicly indicate that its decision has been transmitted to the President in those cases in which the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs or his designee determines that classification of the existence of the decision is appropriate and so informs the Board. The provisions are also applicable to decisions submitted to the President for review pursuant to section 801(b) of the Act.

[PS-72, 41 FR 46291, Oct. 20, 1976]