##### § 718.1 General provisions. #####

(a) Under the provisions of the Missing Persons Act, as amended, a finding of presumptive death is made by the Secretary of the Navy when a survey of all available sources of information indicates beyond doubt that the presumption of continuance of life has been overcome. When a finding of presumptive death is made, a man's pay accounts are closed as of the day following the expiration of the 12 months' absence or a longer period when justified, and the various benefits, such as the six months' gratuity, become payable. A finding of presumptive death concerning an officer or enlisted man of the Navy means simply that as of the date thereof he is for the purposes of Naval administration no longer alive. It does not mean that death occurred on that or on any other certain date.

(b) Findings of presumptive death are never made when the “missing” status has not continued for at least 12 months. Whenever, subsequent to the expiration of the 12th month, cumulative or other evidence establishes by its preponderance that a “missing” person is no longer alive, a prompt finding of presumptive death will be made. Also, such a finding will be made whenever justified by the lapse of time beyond the 12 months' absence without specific information being received.

(c) The Secretary of the Navy, or such subordinate as he may designate, has authority to make all determinations necessary in the administration of the act, and for the purposes of the act determinations so made shall be conclusive as to death or finding or death, as to any other status dealt with by the act, and as to any essential date including that upon which evidence or information is received in the Department. The determination of the Secretary of the Navy, or of such subordinate as he may designate, is conclusive as to whether information received concerning any person is to be construed and acted upon as an official report of death. When any information deemed to establish conclusively the death of any person is received in the department, action shall be taken thereon as an official report of death, notwithstanding any prior action relating to death or other status of such person. Under the foregoing provisions a determination of death is made prior to the expiration of 12 months when the evidence received is considered to establish conclusively the fact of death and settlement of accounts is made to the date established as the date of receipt of evidence on which the fact of death is established.

(Sec. 301, 80 Stat. 379; 5 U.S.C. 301. Interpret or apply 80 Stat. 112-117, 248-254; 5 U.S.C. 5561-5568, 37 U.S.C. 551-558)[17 FR 5390, June 14, 1952]