##### § 993.128 Nominations for membership. #####

(a) *Districts.* In accordance with the provisions of § 993.28, the districts referred to therein are described as follows:

*District No. 1.* The counties of Colusa, Glenn, Solano and Yolo.*District No. 2.* That portion of Sutter County north of a line extending along Franklin Road easterly to the Yuba County line and westerly to the Colusa County line.*District No. 3.* That portion of Sutter County south of a line extending along Franklin Road easterly to the Yuba County line and westerly to the Colusa County line.*District No. 4.* The counties of Alpine, Amador, Del Norte, El Dorado, Humboldt, Lake, Lassen, Mendocino, Modoc, Napa, Nevada, Placer, Plumas, Sacramento, Shasta, Sierra, Siskiyou, Sonoma, Tehama and Trinity.*District No. 5.* All of Butte County.*District No. 6.* All of Yuba County.*District No. 7.* The counties of Fresno, Kern, Kings, Madera Merced, San Benito, San Joaquin, Santa Clara, Tulare and all other counties not included in Districts 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6.

(b) *Voting procedures*—(1) *Independent producers.* Prior to March 8 of each election year, the Committee shall cause a meeting to be held, in each of the election districts established pursuant to § 993.28(a) for the purpose of obtaining names of proposed candidates for nomination to the Secretary for selection as members and alternate members for the respective districts. Each such candidate must be a producer in the district for which he is proposed. Prior to March 15 of that election year, the Committee shall prepare for each district and mail to each independent producer of record in such district a ballot as prescribed in § 993.28(a). Each voter shall be entitled to cast only one vote for a member nominee and only one vote for an alternate member nominee in a district in which he is a producer, and no voter shall vote for candidates in more than one district. In case he is a producer in more than one district he shall elect in which of such districts he will vote and notify the Committee as to his choice. In order to be counted, such a mail ballot must be executed and returned to the Committee postmarked not later than the following March 31. One nominee for member and one nominee for alternate member for each district shall be submitted to the Secretary by the Committee on the basis of those receiving the plurality of the mail ballots cast for the respective positions in the particular district. Returns shall be considered in light of the voting by each district separately.

(2) *Independent handler nominees.* (i) Prior to March 15 of each election year, the Committee shall notify each independent handler of record of the group of independent handlers in which he has been classified pursuant to the provisions of § 993.28(c) and of the number of independent handler positions on the Committee for the ensuing term of office pursuant to the provisions of § 993.24 (b) and (c). Prior to April 1 of each election year, each of the two independent handlers classified in the group specified in § 993.28(c)(1) shall notify the Committee in writing of his nominee for member and nominee for alternate member as prescribed therein.

(ii) In any election year in which four member positions and four alternate member positions are assigned to independent handlers for the ensuing term of office, the Committee shall, prior to April 1 of such year, cause to be held a meeting of the three independent handlers classified in the group specified in § 993.28(c)(2) and a separate meeting of all other independent handlers classified in the group specified in § 993.28(c)(3). Each group at its meeting shall, from among that group, elect one member nominee and one alternate member nominee by plurality vote. Each handler present at the meeting of his group shall be entitled to one vote for a candidate for each position assigned to that group.

(iii) In any election year in which only three member positions and three alternate member positions are assigned to independent handlers for the ensuing term of office, the Committee shall, prior to April 1 thereof, cause to be held a meeting of all independent handlers except those classified in the group specified in § 993.28(c)(1). At such meeting one member nominee and one alternate member nominee shall be elected in accordance with the applicable provisions of § 993.28(c).

[47 FR 7389, Feb. 19, 1982, as amended at 55 FR 5571, Feb. 16, 1990; 59 FR 8518, Feb. 23, 1994; 64 FR 72912, Dec. 29, 1999]