##### § 617.26 Liable and agent State responsibilities. #####

(a) *Liable State.* The liable State means, for any individual, the State which administers the applicable State law (as determined under § 617.16). The liable State is responsible for making all determinations, redeterminations, and decisions on appeals on all claims for program benefits under this part 617, including waivers and revocations of waivers pursuant to § 617.19, subsistence payments pursuant to § 617.27, and transportation payments pursuant to § 617.28. Upon receiving a copy of a certification issued by the Department, with respect to an affected firm in the State, the liable State also is responsible for publishing newspaper notices as provided in § 617.4(d), furnishing information and assistance to workers as provided in § 617.4, furnishing reemployment services under subparts C, D, and E of this part to all eligible workers covered by such certification, and carrying out other activities and functions required by the State's Agreement with the Secretary entered into pursuant to § 617.59. All determinations pertaining to any individual's eligibility for or entitlement to any program benefit under this part 617 shall be subject to the provisions of §§ 617.50 and 617.51.

(b) *Agent State.* Agent State means, for any individual, any State other than the liable State for the individual. Agent States shall be responsible for cooperating fully with the liable State and assisting the liable State in carrying out its activities and functions. These agent State responsibilities shall be part of the activities and functions undertaken by the agent States under their Agreements entered into pursuant to § 617.59. Agent State responsibilities include cooperating with liable States in taking applications and claims for TAA, providing reemployment services to certified workers in accordance with subparts B, C, D and E of this part, providing interstate claimants with TAA program information and assistance, assisting applicants or claimants to file claims for TAA program benefits and services, cooperating with the liable State by providing information needed to issue determinations, redeterminations, and decisions on appeals, and procuring and paying the cost of any approved training, including subsistence and transportation costs, according to determinations issued by the liable State.

[59 FR 938, Jan. 6, 1994]