##### ยง 538.407 Facilitation by a United States person. #####

(a) The prohibition contained in ยง 538.206 against facilitation by a United States person of the exportation or reexportation of goods, technology, or services between Sudan and any destination (including the United States) bars any unlicensed action by a U.S. person that assists or supports trading activity with Sudan by any person. Facilitation of a trade or financial transaction that could be engaged in directly by a U.S. person or from the United States consistent with the prohibitions, general licenses and exemptions contained in this part is not prohibited. Activity of a purely clerical or reporting nature that does not further trade or financial transactions with Sudan or the Government of Sudan is not considered prohibited facilitation. For example, reporting on the results of a subsidiary's trade with Sudan is not prohibited, while financing or insuring that trade or warranting the quality of goods sold by a subsidiary to the Government of Sudan constitutes prohibited facilitation.

(b) To avoid potential liability for U.S. persons under this part, a U.S. parent corporation must ensure that its foreign subsidiaries act independently of any U.S. person with respect to all transactions and activities relating to the exportation or reexportation of goods, technology, or services between Sudan and any other location including but not limited to business and legal planning; decision making; designing, ordering or transporting goods; and financial, insurance, and other risks. See ยง 538.505 with respect to exports of, inter alia, certain legal services benefitting Sudan.

(c) No U.S. person may change its policies or operating procedures, or those of a foreign affiliate or subsidiary, in order to enable a foreign entity owned or controlled by U.S. persons to enter into a transaction that could not be entered into directly by a U.S. person or from the United States pursuant to this part.

(d) No U.S. person may refer to a foreign person purchase orders, requests for bids, or similar business opportunities involving Sudan or the Government of Sudan to which the United States person could not directly respond as a result of the prohibitions contained in this part.