##### ยง 90.553 Encryption. #####

(a) Encryption is permitted on all but the two nationwide Interoperability calling channels. Radios employing encryption must have a readily accessible switch or other readily accessible control that permits the radio user to disable encryption.

(b) If encryption is employed, then transmitters manufactured after August 11, 2014 must use the Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) specified in ANSI/TIA-102.AAAD-A: Project 25 Digital Land Mobile Radio-Block Encryption Protocol, approved August 20, 2009. Until 2030, manufacturers may also include the Digital Encryption Standard (DES) or Triple Data Encryption Algorithm (TDEA), in addition to but not in place of AES, for compatibility with legacy radios that lack AES capability. The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. The standard can also be purchased from TIA/EIA, 2500 Wilson Boulevard, Arlington, VA 22201 703-907-7974; Global Engineering Documents, 15 Inverness Way East, Englewood, CO 80112; or the American National Standards Institute, 25 West 43rd Street, Fourth Floor, New York, NY 10036, *www.ansi.org.* Material incorporated by reference may be inspected at the Federal Communications Commission's Reference Information Center, located at the address of the FCC's main office indicated in 47 CFR 0.401(a), Tel: (202) 418-0270, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal\_register/code\_of\_federal\_regulations/ibr\_locations.html.*

(c) The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies of the standard listed in this section that are incorporated by reference may be inspected at the Federal Communications Commission, 445 12th Street, SW., Washington, DC (Reference Information Center) or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal\_register/code\_of\_federal\_regulations/ibr\_locations.html.* The standard can also be purchased from TIA/EIA, 2500 Wilson Boulevard, Arlington, VA, 22201; Global Engineering Documents, 15 Inverness Way East, Englewood, CO 80112; or the American National Standards Institute, 25 West 43rd Street, Fourth Floor, New York, NY 10036 (or via the Internet at *www.ansi.org.*)

[66 FR 10636, Feb. 16, 2001, as amended at 67 FR 61006, Sept. 26, 2002; 79 FR 39341, July 10, 2014; 85 FR 64410, Oct. 13, 2020]