##### ยง 1208.40 Establishment and membership. #####

(a) *Establishment of the National Processed Raspberry Council.* There is hereby established a National Processed Raspberry Council, or such other name as recommended by the Council and approved by the Department, hereinafter called Council, composed of thirteen (13) members and thirteen (13) alternate members, appointed by the Secretary from nominations as follows:

(1) Six (6) processed raspberry producer members and alternate members from States producing a minimum of three (3) million pounds of raspberries delivered for processing. Distribution of the seats among the eligible States shall be proportional to the percent determined by the average of the total pounds produced and delivered to processors for processing over the previous three years divided by the average total pounds by all of the eligible States for the previous three years. Only States whose producers deliver raspberries for processing and pay assessments are eligible for nomination and election to the Council. Average production will be based upon either State production figures or the Department data for the initial election, and production figures generated by either the Council or the Department thereafter;

(2) One (1) processed raspberry producer member and alternate member representing all other States producing less than a three (3) million pounds of raspberries delivered for processing. All States producing less than three million pounds of raspberries delivered for processing will constitute a region from which one producer member and alternate will be nominated to the Council. Only States whose producers deliver raspberries for processing and pay assessments are eligible for nomination and election to the Council. Average production will be based upon either State production figures or the Department data for the initial election, and production figures generated by either the Council or the Department thereafter;

(3) Three (3) processed raspberry importer members and alternate members;

(4) Two (2) foreign producers and their alternate members from countries exporting a minimum of three million pounds of raspberries for processing to the U.S, based on a three-year average; and

(5) One (1) at-large member and an alternate recommended by the Council and shall be submitted by the Council to the Secretary for approval. In recommending the at-large member and alternate, the Council shall give consideration to nutrition health professionals and others interested in raspberry industry. Nominations for the initial Council will be handled by the Department.

(b) *Adjustment of membership.* At least once every five years, but not more frequently than once every three years, the Council will review the geographic distribution of United States production of processed raspberries and the quantity and source of processed raspberry imports. The review will be conducted through an audit of State crop production figures and Council assessment receipts. If warranted, the Council will recommend to the Secretary that membership on the Council be altered to reflect any changes in geographic distribution of domestic raspberry production for processing and the quantity of imports. If the level of imports increases or decreases, importer members and alternates may be added or reduced on the Council, subject to recommendation by the Council and approval of the Secretary. However, the foreign producer seats will remain the same regardless of the volume of imports from importing countries.

(c) *Council's Ability to Serve the Diversity of the Industry.* When making recommendations for appointments, the industry should take into account the diversity of the population served and the knowledge, skills, and abilities of the members to serve a diverse population, size of the operations, methods of production and distribution, and other distinguishing factors to ensure that the Council represents the diverse interest of persons responsible for paying assessments, and others in the marketing chain, if appropriate.