##### § 143.5 Taxes on self-dealing; indirect transactions by a private foundation. #####

(a) *In general.* Section 4941(d)(1)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 as added by section 101(b) of the Tax Reform Act of 1969 (83 Stat. 500) provides that the term “self-dealing” includes any direct or indirect payment of compensation (or payment or reimbursement of expenses) by a private foundation to a disqualified person. Section 4941(d)(1)(E) provides that the term “self-dealing” includes any direct or indirect transfer to, or use by, or for the benefit of, a disqualified person of the income or assets of a private foundation. Section 4941(d)(1)(F) provides that the term “self-dealing” includes any direct or indirect agreement by a private foundation to make any payment of money or other property to a government official other than an agreement to employ such individual for any period after the termination of his government service if such individual is terminating his government service within a 90-day period.

(b) *Indirect transactions by a private foundation.* A transaction engaged in directly with a Government official by an organization described in section 509(a) (1), (2), or (3) which is the recipient of a grant from a private foundation shall not constitute an indirect act of self-dealing between such private foundation and Government official if the private foundation does not earmark the use of the grant for any named Government official and does not control or retain any veto power over the selection of the Government official by the grantee organization. For purposes of the preceding sentence, a grant by a private foundation shall not constitute an indirect act of self-dealing even though such foundation had reason to believe that certain Government officials would derive benefits from such grant so long as the grantee, in fact, exercises control over the selecting process and actually makes the selection completely independent of the private foundation.

(c) *Example.* The provisions of subsection (b) of this section may be illustrated by the following example.

Example.A private foundation made a grant to an organization described in section 509(a) (1), (2), or (3) to conduct a judicial seminar. The grantee conducting the seminar made payments to certain Government officials. By the nature of the seminar the grantor foundation had reason to believe that Government officials would be compensated for participation in such seminar. The grantee, however, had complete independent control over the selection of such participants. Since the grantee has not acted as a conduit for the private foundation and has, in fact, exercised independent control over the use of the grant, such grant by the private foundation shall not constitute an act of self-dealing with respect to the Government officials.[T.D. 7036, 35 FR 6322, Apr. 18, 1970]