##### § 31.6302-3 Federal tax deposit rules for amounts withheld under the backup withholding requirements of section 3406 for payments made after December 31, 1992. #####

(a) *General rule.* The rules of § 31.6302-1 shall apply to determine the time and manner of making deposits of amounts withheld under the backup withholding requirements of section 3406.

(b) *Treatment of backup withholding amounts separately.* A taxpayer that withholds income tax under section 3406 with respect to reportable payments made after December 31, 1992, and before January 1, 1994, may, in accordance with the instructions provided with Form 941, deposit such tax under the rules of § 31.6302-1 without taking into account the other taxes described in paragraph (e) of § 31.6302-1 for purposes of determining when tax withheld under section 3406 must be deposited. A taxpayer that treats backup withholding amounts separately with respect to reportable payments made after December 31, 1992, and before January 1, 1994, shall not take tax withheld under section 3406 into account for purposes of determining when the other taxes described in paragraph (e) of § 31.6302-1 must otherwise be deposited under that section. See § 31.6302-4 for rules regarding the deposit of income tax withheld under section 3406 with respect to reportable payments made after December 31, 1993.

(c) *Example.* The following example illustrates the provisions of this section.

Example.For the last two calendar quarters of 1991 and the first two calendar quarters of 1992, Bank *A* reports employment taxes with respect to wages paid totalling in excess of $50,000. For the same four quarters, pursuant to section 3406, *A* withholds income tax with respect to dividend payments in an amount aggregating less than $50,000. For deposit and reporting purposes, *A* treated the backup withholding amounts separately from the employment taxes with respect to wages paid. Accordingly, for calendar year 1993, if *A* chooses to treat the items separately, *A* must use the Semi-Weekly rule of § 31.6302-1(c)(2) to deposit taxes with respect to wages paid but may use the Monthly rule of § 31.6302-1(c)(1) for the deposit of backup withholding amounts. If *A* chooses not to treat the items separately, the Semi-Weekly rule would apply to the combined amount of both the taxes with respect to wages paid and the backup withholding amounts.[T.D. 8436, 57 FR 44106, Sept. 24, 1992, as amended by T.D. 8504, 58 FR 68035, Dec. 23, 1993]