##### 6101.14 Interrogatories to parties; requests for admission; requests for production [Rule 14]. #####

Upon order from the Board permitting such discovery, a party may serve on another party written interrogatories, requests for admission, and requests for production.

(a) *Written interrogatories.* Written interrogatories shall be answered separately in writing, signed under oath or accompanied by a declaration under penalty of perjury, and answered within 30 calendar days after service. Objections shall be filed within the time limits set forth in 6101.13(f)(2) (Rule 13(f)(2)).

(b) *Option to produce business records.* Where the answer to an interrogatory may be derived or ascertained from the business records of the party upon which the interrogatory has been served, or from an examination, audit, or inspection of such business records, including a compilation, abstract, or summary thereof, and the burden of deriving or ascertaining the answer is substantially the same for the party serving the interrogatory as for the party served, it is a sufficient answer to such interrogatory to specify the records from which the answer may be derived or ascertained and to afford to the party serving the interrogatory reasonable opportunity to examine, audit, or inspect such records and to make copies, compilations, abstracts, or summaries thereof. Such specification shall be in sufficient detail to permit the interrogating party to locate and to identify, as readily as can the party served, the records from which the answer may be ascertained.

(c) *Written requests for admission.* A written request for the admission of the truth of any matter, within the proper scope of discovery, that relates to statements or opinions of fact or of the application of law to fact, including the genuineness of any documents or electronically stored information, is to be answered in writing and signed within 30 calendar days after service. Objections shall be filed within the time limits set forth in 6101.13(f)(2) [Rule 13(f)(2)]. Otherwise, the matter therein may be deemed to be admitted. Any matter admitted is conclusively established for the purpose of the pending action, unless the Board on motion permits withdrawal or amendment of the admission. Any admission made by a party under this paragraph (c) is for the purpose of the pending action only and is not an admission for any other purpose, nor may it be used against the party in any other proceeding.

(d) *Written requests for production.* A written request for the production, inspection, and copying of any documents, electronically stored information, or things shall be answered within 30 calendar days after service. Objections shall be filed within the time limits set forth in 6101.13(f)(2) [Rule 13(f)(2)].

(e) *Change in time for response.* Upon request of a party, or on its own initiative, the Board may prescribe a period of time other than that specified in 6101.14 (Rule 14).

(f) *Responses.* A party that has responded to written interrogatories, requests for admission, or requests for production of documents, electronically stored information, or things, upon becoming aware of deficiencies or inaccuracies in its original responses, or upon acquiring additional information or additional documents, electronically stored information, or things relevant thereto, shall, as quickly as practicable, and as often as necessary, supplement its responses to the requesting party with correct and sufficient additional information and such additional documents, electronically stored information, and things as are necessary to give a complete and accurate response to the request.

[72 FR 36795, July 5, 2007, as amended at 73 FR 26951, May 12, 2008]