##### ยง 52.2526 Control strategy: Particulate matter. #####

(a) EPA approves West Virginia's November 15, 1991 SIP submittal for fulfilling the PM10-specific requirement of part D for contingency measures required under section 172(c)(9) of the Clean Air Act applicable to the Follansbee, West Virginia PM10 nonattainment area.

(b) *Determinations of Attainment.* EPA has determined, as of November 20, 2009, the Martinsburg-Hagerstown, WV-MD, the Parkersburg-Marietta, WV-OH and the Wheeling, WV-OH PM2.5 nonattainment areas have attained the 1997 PM2.5 NAAQS. These determinations, in accordance with 40 CFR 52.1004(c), suspend the requirements for these areas to submit an attainment demonstration, associated reasonably available control measures, a reasonable further progress plan, contingency measures, and other planning SIPs related to attainment of the standard for as long as these areas continue to meet the 1997 PM2.5 NAAQS.

(c) *Determination of Attainment.* EPA has determined, as of September 7, 2011, that based upon 2007-2009 air quality data, the Huntington-Ashland, West Virginia-Kentucky-Ohio, nonattainment Area has attained the 1997 annual PM2.5 NAAQS. This determination, in accordance with 40 CFR 52.1004(c), suspends the requirements for this Area to submit an attainment demonstration, associated reasonably available control measures, a reasonable further progress plan, contingency measures, and other planning SIPs related to attainment of the standard for as long as this Area continues to meet the 1997 annual PM2.5 NAAQS.

(d) *Determination of Attainment.* EPA has determined, as of September 14, 2011, that based on 2007 to 2009 ambient air quality data, the Steubenville-Weirton nonattainment area has attained the 1997 annual PM2.5 NAAQS. This determination, in accordance with 40 CFR 52.1004(c), suspends the requirements for this area to submit an attainment demonstration, associated reasonably available control measures, a reasonable further progress plan, contingency measures, and other planning SIPs related to attainment of the standard for as long as this area continues to meet the 1997 annual PM2.5 NAAQS.

(e) *Determination of Attainment.* EPA has determined, as of October 11, 2011, that based on 2007 to 2009 ambient air quality data, the Charleston nonattainment area has attained the 1997 annual PM2.5 NAAQS. This determination, in accordance with 40 CFR 52.1004(c), suspends the requirements for this area to submit an attainment demonstration, associated reasonably available control measures, a reasonable further progress plan, contingency measures, and other planning SIPs related to attainment of the standard for as long as this area continues to meet the 1997 annual PM2.5 NAAQS.

(f) *Determination of Attainment.* EPA has determined, as of November 18, 2011, that based on 2007 to 2009 ambient air quality data, the Charleston nonattainment area has attained the 24-hour 2006 PM2.5 NAAQS. This determination, in accordance with 40 CFR 51.1004(c), suspends the requirements for this area to submit an attainment demonstration, associated reasonably available control measures, a reasonable further progress plan, contingency measures, and other planning SIPs related to attainment of the standard for as long as this area continues to meet the 24-hour 2006 PM2.5 NAAQS.

(g) *Determination of Attainment.* EPA has determined, as of *May 14, 2012,* that based on 2008 to 2010 ambient air quality data, the Steubenville-Weirton nonattainment area has attained the 24-hour 2006 PM2.5 NAAQS. This determination, in accordance with 40 CFR 52.1004(c), suspends the requirements for this area to submit an attainment demonstration, associated reasonably available control measures, a reasonable further progress plan, contingency measures, and other planning SIPs related to attainment of the standard for as long as this area continues to meet the 24-hour 2006 PM2.5 NAAQS.

(h) EPA approves the maintenance plan for the West Virginia portion of the Parkersburg-Marietta, WV-OH 1997 PM2.5 Nonattainment Area (Wood County and a portion of Pleasants County). The maintenance plan establishes a determination of insignificance for PM2.5, NOX and SO2 for transportation conformity purposes.

(i) EPA approves the maintenance plan for the West Virginia portion of the Wheeling, WV-OH 1997 PM2.5 Nonattainment Area (Marshall and Ohio Counties). The maintenance plan establishes a determination of insignificance for PM2.5, NOX and SO2 for transportation conformity purposes.

(j) EPA approves the maintenance plan for the Charleston PM2.5 Nonattainment Area (Kanawha and Putnam Counties). The maintenance plan establishes a determination of insignificance for PM2.5 and NOX for transportation conformity purposes.

(k) EPA approves the 1997 annual PM2.5 maintenance plan for the West Virginia portion of the Martinsburg WV-Hagerstown, MD Nonattainment Area (Berkeley County). The maintenance plan includes the 2017 and 2025 PM2.5 and NOX mobile vehicle emissions budgets (MVEBs) for Berkeley County for transportation conformity purposes.

[68 FR 51464, Aug. 27, 2003, as amended at 74 FR 60203, Nov. 20, 2009; 76 FR 55544, Sept. 7, 2011; 76 FR 56643, Sept. 14, 2011; 76 FR 62641, Oct. 11, 2011; 76 FR 71541, Nov. 18, 2011; 77 FR 28265, May 11, 2012; 78 FR 56170, Sept. 12, 2013; 78 FR 58943, Sept. 30, 2013; 79 FR 17886, Mar. 31, 2014; 79 FR 70102, Nov. 25, 2014]