##### § 88.35 National radio quiet zone coordination. #####

(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section, parties planning to operate an NNA station within the area bounded by N 39°15′0.4″ on the north, W 78°29′59.0″ on the east, N 37°30′0.4″ on the south, and W 80°29′59.2″ on the west must notify the National Radio Quiet Zone Administrator (NRQZ Administrator) in writing at Post Office Box No. 2, Green Bank, West Virginia 24944, or by email to *nrqz@nrao.edu,* of the technical details of the proposed operation. The notification must include the geographical coordinates of ground station antenna locations, associated ground station antenna height, antenna directivity (if any), the maximum airborne station altitude, the maximum airborne station flight altitude (MSL or AGL), the frequencies, the emission type, and power.

(1) If an operation or revision of an operation is within the scope, including any applicable conditions, of a previously granted approval from the NRQZ Administrator, parties need not provide notification of the operation or revision to the NRQZ Administrator, but must submit the approval with any frequency assignment request relying on this exception.

(2) If the NRQZ Administrator establishes criteria for NNA operations in the NRQZ that do not require notification to the NRQZ Administrator, and an operation or revision of an operation is within the scope of such criteria, a party need not provide notification of the operation or revision to the NRQZ Administrator, but, when submitting their request, must certify that their request meets the criteria for NNA operations in the NRQZ that do not require notification to the NRQZ Administrator and provide any additional supporting documentation required by the DFMS.

(3) When a request for concurrence is submitted to the FAA under the Interim Access Mechanism provided under § 88.141, the request must state the date that notification in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section was made or provide an approval from the NRQZ Administrator for operations within the NRQZ or portions thereof along with the maximum operating altitude allowed.

(b) When a request for frequency assignment involving an NNA station subject to paragraph (a) of this section is submitted to a DFMS, the required notification must be made prior to or simultaneously with the request. The request must state the date that notification in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section was made. After receipt of such a request, the DFMS shall allow a period of 20 days for objections in response to the notifications indicated. If a DFMS determines that a request is subject to an exception to notification under paragraphs (a)(1) or (2) of this section, it shall process the request without waiting the 20-day period. In instances in which notification has been made to the NRQZ Administrator prior to the submission of the request, the requesting party must also provide notice to the NRQZ Administrator upon actual submission of the request with the DFMS, specifying which DFMS has received the request. Such notice will be made simultaneous with the submission of the request and shall comply with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section.

(c) If an objection from the NRQZ Administrator is received by a DFMS during the 20-day period specified in paragraph (b) of this section, the DFMS shall forward the record, including the assignment request, associated NNA station details, and objection, to the FCC. The FCC will, after consideration of the record, take whatever action is deemed appropriate.

Effective Date Note:At 90 FR 1395, Jan. 8, 2025, Part 88 was added, and § 88.35 was delayed indefinitely.