##### ยง 674.27 State safety oversight program standards. #####

(a) An SSOA must adopt and distribute a written SSO program standard, consistent with the National Public Transportation Safety Plan and the rules for Public Transportation Agency Safety Plans. This SSO program standard must identify the processes and procedures that govern the activities of the SSOA. Also, the SSO program standard must identify the processes and procedures an RTA must have in place to comply with the standard. At minimum, the program standard must meet the following requirements:

(1) *Program management.* The SSO program standard must explain the authority of the SSOA to oversee the safety of rail fixed guideway public transportation systems; the policies that govern the activities of the SSOA; the reporting requirements that govern both the SSOA and the rail fixed guideway public transportation systems; and the steps the SSOA will take to ensure open, on-going communication between the SSOA and every rail fixed guideway public transportation system within its oversight.

(2) *Program standard development.* The SSO program standard must explain the SSOA's process for developing, reviewing, adopting, and revising its minimum standards for safety, and distributing those standards to the rail fixed guideway public transportation systems.

(3) *Program policy and objectives.* The SSO program standard must set an explicit policy and objectives for safety in rail fixed guideway public transportation throughout the State.

(4) *Oversight of Rail Public Transportation Agency Safety Plans and Transit Agencies' internal safety reviews.* The SSO program standard must explain the role of the SSOA in overseeing an RTA's execution of its Public Transportation Agency Safety Plan and any related safety reviews of the RTA's fixed guideway public transportation system. The program standard must describe the process whereby the SSOA will receive and evaluate all material submitted under the signature of an RTA's accountable executive. Also, the program standard must establish a procedure whereby an RTA will notify the SSOA before the RTA conducts an internal review of any aspect of the safety of its rail fixed guideway public transportation system.

(5) *Triennial SSOA audits of Rail Public Transportation Agency Safety Plans.* The SSO program standard must explain the process the SSOA will follow and the criteria the SSOA will apply in conducting a complete audit of the RTA's compliance with its Public Transportation Agency Safety Plan at least once every three years, in accordance with 49 U.S.C. 5329. Alternatively, the SSOA and RTA may agree that the SSOA will conduct its audit on an on-going basis over the three-year timeframe. The program standard must establish a procedure the SSOA and RTA will follow to manage findings and recommendations arising from the triennial audit.

(6) *Accident notification.* The SSO program standard must establish requirements for an RTA to notify the SSOA of accidents on the RTA's rail fixed guideway public transportation system. These requirements must address, specifically, the time limits for notification, methods of notification, and the nature of the information the RTA must submit to the SSOA.

(7) *Investigations.* The SSO program standard must identify thresholds for accidents that require the RTA to conduct an investigation. Also, the program standard must address how the SSOA will oversee an RTA's internal investigation; the role of the SSOA in supporting any investigation conducted or findings and recommendations made by the NTSB or FTA; and procedures for protecting the confidentiality of the investigation reports.

(8) *Corrective actions.* The program standard must explain the process and criteria by which the SSOA may order an RTA to develop and carry out a Corrective Action Plan (CAP), and a procedure for the SSOA to review and approve a CAP. Also, the program standard must explain the SSOA's policy and practice for tracking and verifying an RTA's compliance with the CAP, and managing any conflicts between the SSOA and RTA relating either to the development or execution of the CAP or the findings of an investigation.

(b) At least once a year an SSOA must submit its SSO program standard and any referenced program procedures to FTA, with an indication of any revisions made to the program standard since the last annual submittal. FTA will evaluate the SSOA's program standard as part of its continuous evaluation of the State Safety Oversight Program, and in preparing FTA's report to Congress on the certification status of that State Safety Oversight Program, in accordance with 49 U.S.C. 5329.