##### § 171.1 General provisions. #####

(a) This subpart contains the rules that the Department of State and the Foreign Service Grievance Board (FSGB), an independent body, follow in processing requests for records under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), 5 U.S.C. 552, as amended, and the Privacy Act of 1974 (PA), 5 U.S.C. 552a, as amended. Records of the Department shall be made available to the public upon request made in compliance with the access procedures established in this part, except for any records exempt by law from disclosure. Regulations at 22 CFR 172.1 through 172.9 govern, *inter alia,* the service of subpoenas, court orders, and other demands or requests for official Department information or action, as well as the Department's response to demands or requests for official Department information or action in connection with legal proceedings in the United States to which the Department is not a party.

(b) *Definitions.* (1) For purposes of subparts A, B, and D of this part, *record* means information regardless of its physical form or characteristics—including information created, stored, and retrievable by electronic means—that is created or obtained by the Department and under the control of the Department at the time of the request, including information maintained for the Department by an entity under Government contract for records management purposes. It does not include records that are not already in existence and that would have to be created specifically to respond to a request. Information available in electronic form shall be searched and compiled in response to a request unless such search and compilation would significantly interfere with the operation of the Department's automated information systems.

(2) For purposes of subparts A, B, C, and D of this part, *Department* means the United States Department of State, including its field offices and Foreign Service posts abroad.