##### ยง 165.15 Delegations of authority. #####

(a) *Delegation of authority to the Executive Director.* The Commission hereby delegates, until such time as the Commission orders otherwise, to the Executive Director or to any Commission employee under the Executive Director's supervision as he or she may designate, the authority to take the following actions to carry out this part 165 and the requirements of Section 23(h) of Commodity Exchange Act.

(1) *Delegated authority under ยง 165.12(a), (b).* The Executive Director's delegated authority to deposit into or credit collected monetary sanctions to the Fund and the payment of awards therefrom shall be with the concurrence of the General Counsel and the Director of the Division of Enforcement or of their respective designees.

(2) *Delegated authority to select a Whistleblower Award Determination Panel that shall be composed of three of the Commission's Offices or Divisions.* The Whistleblower Award Determination Panel shall include neither the Division of Enforcement nor the Office of General Counsel.

(b) *Delegation of Authority to Whistleblower Award Determination Panel.* The Commission hereby delegates, until such time as the Commission orders otherwise, to the Whistleblower Award Determination Panel the authority to make whistleblower award determinations under this part 165, including the determinations as whether, to whom, or in what amount to make awards. Award determinations in matters involving monetary sanctions in either the Commission's action or a related action that total more than $15,000,000 (*i.e.,* matters with a maximum potential whistleblower award greater than $5,000,000) must be determined by the heads of the Offices or Divisions comprising the Whistleblower Award Determination Panel. In all other matters, award determinations may be determined by the employee designees of the heads of the Offices or Divisions comprising the Whistleblower Award Determination Panel.

(c) *Delegation of Authority to the Whistleblower Office.* With the exception of ยง 165.12, the Commission hereby delegates, until such time as the Commission orders otherwise, to the head of the Whistleblower Office the authority to take any action under this part 165 that is not otherwise delegated to either the Executive Director or the Whistleblower Award Determination Panel under this section, including the authority to administer the Commission's whistleblower program and liaise with whistleblowers.