##### § 165.7 Procedures for award applications and Commission award determinations. #####

Link to an amendment published at 82 FR 24498, May 30, 2017.

(a) Whenever a Commission judicial or administrative action results in monetary sanctions totaling more than $1,000,000 (*i.e.,* a covered judicial or administrative action) the Commission will publish on the Commission's Web site a “Notice of Covered Action.” Such Notice of Covered Action will be published subsequent to the entry of a final judgment or order that alone, or collectively with other judgments or orders previously entered in the Commission covered administrative or judicial action, exceeds $1,000,000 in monetary sanctions. The Commission will not contact whistleblower claimants directly as to Notices of Covered Actions; prospective claimants should monitor the Commission Web site for such Notices. A whistleblower claimant will have 90 days from the date of the Notice of Covered Action to file a claim for an award based on that action, or the claim will be barred.

(b) To file a claim for a whistleblower award, the whistleblower must file Form WB-APP, *Application for Award for Original Information Provided Pursuant to Section 23 of the Commodity Exchange Act.* The whistleblower must sign this form as the claimant and submit it to the Commission by mail or fax to Commodity Futures Trading Commission, Three Lafayette Centre, 1155 21st Street, NW., Washington, DC 20581, Fax (202) 418-5975. The Form WB-APP, including any attachments, must be received by the Commission within 90 calendar days of the date of the Notice of Covered Action or 90 calendar days following the date of a final judgment in a related action in order to be considered for an award.

(c) If the whistleblower provided the whistleblower's original information to the Commission anonymously pursuant to §§ 165.3 and 165.4 and:

(1) The whistleblower is making the whistleblower's claim for a whistleblower award on a disclosed basis, the whistleblower must disclose the whistleblower's identity on the Form WB-APP. The whistleblower's identity must be verified in a form and manner that is acceptable to the Commission prior to the payment of any award; or

(2) The whistleblower is making the whistleblower's claim for a whistleblower award on an anonymous basis, the whistleblower must be represented by counsel. The whistleblower must provide the whistleblower's counsel with a completed Form WB-APP that is signed by the whistleblower by no later than the date upon which the whistleblower's counsel submits to the Commission a copy of the Form WB-APP that does not disclose the whistleblower's identity and is signed solely by the whistleblower's counsel. In addition, the whistleblower's counsel must retain the signed original of the whistleblower's Form WB-APP in counsel's records. Upon request of the Commission staff, whistleblower's counsel must produce to the Commission the whistleblower's signed original WB-APP and the whistleblower's identity must be verified in a form and manner that is acceptable to the Commission prior to the payment of any award.

(d) Once the time for filing any appeals of the Commission's judicial or administrative action and all related actions has expired, or, where an appeal has been filed, after all appeals in the judicial, administrative and related actions have concluded, the Commission will evaluate all timely whistleblower award claims submitted on Form WB-APP in accordance with the criteria set forth in this part 165. In connection with this process, the Commission may require that the whistleblower provide additional information relating to the whistleblower's eligibility for an award or satisfaction of any of the conditions for an award, as set forth in § 165.5(b). Following that evaluation, the Commission will send the whistleblower a Final Order setting forth whether the claim is allowed or denied and, if allowed, setting forth the award percentage amount.

(e) The Commission's Office of the Secretariat will provide the whistleblower with the Final Order of the Commission.