cfr/title-21-Food-Drugs/chapter-II-Drug-Enforcement-Administration-Department-Justice/part-1316-Administrative-Functions-Practices-Procedures/subpart-D-Administrative-Hearings/section-1316.47.md, before:

##### § 1316.47 Request for hearing. #####

Link to an amendment published at 81 FR 97041, Dec. 30, 2016.Link to a delay published at 82 FR 8688, Jan. 30, 2017.

(a) Any person entitled to a hearing and desiring a hearing shall, within the period permitted for filing, file a request for a hearing in the following form (see the Table of DEA Mailing Addresses in § 1321.01 of this chapter for the current mailing address):

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_(Date)Administrator, Drug Enforcement Administration, Attention: DEA Federal Register Representative.

Dear Sir: The undersigned \_\_\_\_\_\_ (Name of person) hereby requests a hearing in the matter of: \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ (Identification of the proceeding).

(A) (State with particularity the interest of the person in the proceeding.)

(B) (State with particularity the objections or issues, if any, concerning which the person desires to be heard.)

(C) (State briefly the position of the person with regard to the particular objections or issues.)

All notices to be sent pursuant to the proceeding should be addressed to:

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ (Name)\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ (Street address)\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ (City and State)

Respectfully yours,

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ (Signature of person)

(b) The Administrative Law Judge, upon request and showing of good cause, may grant a reasonable extension of the time allowed for response to an Order to Show Cause.

[36 FR 7820, Apr. 24, 1971, as amended at 36 FR 13387, July 21, 1971. Redesignated at 38 FR 26609, Sept. 24, 1973]Editorial Note:For Federal Register citations affecting § 1316.47, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at *www.fdsys.gov.*

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2017-03-21 issue
Title: 5: Administrative Personnel - Sections changed: 34
Title: 14: Aeronautics and Space - Sections changed: 26
Title: 7: Agriculture - Sections changed: 12
Title: 9: Animals and Animal Products - Sections changed: 15
Title: 13: Business Credit and Assistance - Sections changed: 21
Title: 15: Commerce and Foreign Trade - Sections changed: 1
Title: 19: Customs Duties - Sections changed: 14
Title: 34: Education - Sections changed: 29
Title: 10: Energy - Sections changed: 31
Title: 2: Federal Financial Assistance - Sections changed: 1
Title: 21: Food and Drugs - Sections changed: 76
Title: 24: Housing and Urban Development - Sections changed: 1
Title: 26: Internal Revenue - Sections changed: 3
Title: 28: Judicial Administration - Sections changed: 2
Title: 29: Labor - Sections changed: 8
Title: 36: Parks, Forests, and Public Property - Sections changed: 12
Title: 37: Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights - Sections changed: 2
Title: 38: Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief - Sections changed: 4
Title: 40: Protection of Environment - Sections changed: 54
Title: 42: Public Health - Sections changed: 89
Title: 47: Telecommunication - Sections changed: 10
Title: 49: Transportation - Sections changed: 14
Title: 50: Wildlife and Fisheries - Sections changed: 26

cfr/title-21-Food-Drugs/chapter-II-Drug-Enforcement-Administration-Department-Justice/part-1316-Administrative-Functions-Practices-Procedures/subpart-D-Administrative-Hearings/section-1316.47.md, after:

##### § 1316.47 Request for hearing. #####

(a) Any person entitled to a hearing and desiring a hearing shall, within the period permitted for filing, file a request for a hearing and/or an answer that complies with the following format (see the Table of DEA Mailing Addresses in § 1321.01 of this chapter for the current mailing address):

(Date)Drug Enforcement Administration, Attn: Hearing Clerk/OALJ(Mailing Address)Subject: Request for HearingDear Sir:

The undersigned \_\_\_\_\_\_ (Name of the Person) hereby requests a hearing in the matter of: \_\_\_\_\_\_ (Identification of the proceeding).

(A) (State with particularity the interest of the person in the proceeding.)

(B) (State with particularity the objections or issues, if any, concerning which the person desires to be heard.)

(C) (State briefly the position of the person with regard to the particular objections or issues.)

All notices to be sent pursuant to the proceeding should be addressed to:

(Name)(Street Address)(City and State)Respectfully yours,(Signature of Person)

(b) The Administrative Law Judge, upon request and showing of good cause, may grant a reasonable extension of the time allowed for response to an Order to Show Cause.

[36 FR 7820, Apr. 24, 1971, as amended at 36 FR 13387, July 21, 1971. Redesignated at 38 FR 26609, Sept. 24, 1973]Editorial Note:For Federal Register citations affecting § 1316.47, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at *www.fdsys.gov.*
