cfr/title-08-Aliens-Nationality/chapter-V-Executive-Office-Immigration-Review-Department-Justice/subchapter-B-Immigration-Regulations/part-1208-Procedures-Asylum-Withholding-Removal/subpart-A-Asylum-Withholding-Removal/section-1208.15.md, before:

##### § 1208.15 Definition of “firm resettlement.” #####

Link to an amendment published at 85 FR 80397, Dec. 11, 2020.

An alien is considered to be firmly resettled if, prior to arrival in the United States, he or she entered into another country with, or while in that country received, an offer of permanent resident status, citizenship, or some other type of permanent resettlement unless he or she establishes:

(a) That his or her entry into that country was a necessary consequence of his or her flight from persecution, that he or she remained in that country only as long as was necessary to arrange onward travel, and that he or she did not establish significant ties in that country; or

(b) That the conditions of his or her residence in that country were so substantially and consciously restricted by the authority of the country of refuge that he or she was not in fact resettled. In making his or her determination, the asylum officer or immigration judge shall consider the conditions under which other residents of the country live; the type of housing, whether permanent or temporary, made available to the refugee; the types and extent of employment available to the refugee; and the extent to which the refugee received permission to hold property and to enjoy other rights and privileges, such as travel documentation that includes a right of entry or reentry, education, public relief, or naturalization, ordinarily available to others resident in the country.

[65 FR 76135, Dec. 6, 2000]

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2021-01-11 issue
Title: 5: Administrative Personnel - Sections changed: 1
Title: 14: Aeronautics and Space - Sections changed: 26
Title: 7: Agriculture - Sections changed: 1
Title: 8: Aliens and Nationality - Sections changed: 34
Title: 9: Animals and Animal Products - Sections changed: 1
Title: 12: Banks and Banking - Sections changed: 54
Title: 15: Commerce and Foreign Trade - Sections changed: 4
Title: 17: Commodity and Securities Exchanges - Sections changed: 14
Title: 20: Employees' Benefits - Sections changed: 28
Title: 11: Federal Elections - Sections changed: 3
Title: 2: Federal Financial Assistance - Sections changed: 8
Title: 26: Internal Revenue - Sections changed: 44
Title: 29: Labor - Sections changed: 105
Title: 33: Navigation and Navigable Waters - Sections changed: 2
Title: 37: Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights - Sections changed: 2
Title: 40: Protection of Environment - Sections changed: 12
Title: 41: Public Contracts and Property Management - Sections changed: 1
Title: 45: Public Welfare - Sections changed: 4
Title: 46: Shipping - Sections changed: 4
Title: 49: Transportation - Sections changed: 65
Title: 50: Wildlife and Fisheries - Sections changed: 8

cfr/title-08-Aliens-Nationality/chapter-V-Executive-Office-Immigration-Review-Department-Justice/subchapter-B-Immigration-Regulations/part-1208-Procedures-Asylum-Withholding-Removal/subpart-A-Asylum-Withholding-Removal/section-1208.15.md, after:

##### § 1208.15 Definition of “firm resettlement.” #####

(a) An alien is considered to be firmly resettled if, after the events giving rise to the alien's asylum claim:

(1) The alien resided in a country through which the alien transited prior to arriving in or entering the United States and—

(i) Received or was eligible for any permanent legal immigration status in that country;

(ii) Resided in such a country with any non-permanent but indefinitely renewable legal immigration status (including asylee, refugee, or similar status but excluding status such as of a tourist); or

(iii) Resided in such a country and could have applied for and obtained any non-permanent but indefinitely renewable legal immigration status in that country;

(2) The alien physically resided voluntarily, and without continuing to suffer persecution in any one country for one year or more after departing his country of nationality or last habitual residence and prior to arrival in or entry into the United States, provided that time spent in Mexico by an alien who is not a native or citizen of Mexico solely as a direct result of being returned to Mexico pursuant to section 235(b)(2)(C) of the Act or of being subject to metering would not be counted for purposes of this paragraph; or

(3)(i) The alien is a citizen of a country other than the one where the alien alleges a fear of persecution and the alien was present in that country after departing his country of nationality or last habitual residence and prior to arrival in or entry into the United States, or

(ii) the alien was a citizen of a country other than the one where the alien alleges a fear of persecution, the alien was present in that country after departing his country of nationality or last habitual residence and prior to arrival in or entry into the United States, and the alien renounced that citizenship after arriving in the United States.

(b) The provisions of 8 CFR 1240.8(d) shall apply when the evidence of record indicates that the firm resettlement bar may apply. In such cases, the alien shall bear the burden of proving the bar does not apply. Either DHS or the immigration judge may raise the issue of the application of the firm resettlement bar based on the evidence of record. The firm resettlement of an alien's parent(s) shall be imputed to the alien if the resettlement occurred before the alien turned 18 and the alien resided with the alien's parents at the time of the firm resettlement unless he or she could not have derived any permanent legal immigration status or any non-permanent but indefinitely renewable legal immigration status (including asylee, refugee, or similar status but excluding status such as of a tourist) from the alien's parent.

[85 FR 80397, Dec. 11, 2020]
