##### ยง 806b.4 Privacy Act complaints. #####

(a) Process Privacy Act complaints or allegations of Privacy Act violations through the appropriate base or Major Command Privacy Act office, to the local systems manager. The base or Major Command Privacy Act officer directs the process and provides guidance to the system manager. The local systems manager will investigate complaints, or allegations of Privacy Act violations; will establish and review the facts when possible; interview individuals as needed; determine validity of the complaint; take appropriate corrective action; and ensure a response is sent to the complainant through the Privacy Act Officer. In cases where no system manager can be identified, the local Privacy Act officer will assume these duties. Issues that cannot be resolved at the local level will be elevated to the Major Command Privacy Office. When appropriate, local system managers will also: refer cases for more formal investigation, refer cases for command disciplinary action, and consult the servicing Staff Judge Advocate. In combatant commands, process component unique system complaints through the respective component chain of command.

(b) For Privacy Act complaints filed in a U.S. District Court against the Air Force, an Air Force activity, or any Air Force employee, Air Force Legal Services Agency, General Litigation Division (JACL) will provide Air Force Chief Information Officer/P a litigation summary to include: The case number, requester name, the nature of the case (denial of access, refusal to amend, incorrect records, or specify the particular violation of the Privacy Act), date complaint filed, court, defendants, and any appropriate remarks, as well as updates during the litigation process. When the court renders a formal opinion or judgment, Air Force Legal Services Agency, General Litigation Division (JACL) sends Air Force Chief Information Officer/P a copy of the judgment and opinion.