##### ยง 1600.7 Procedures for closing a meeting to the public. #####

(a) A majority of all Directors may vote to close a meeting or withhold information pertaining to that meeting. A separate vote shall be taken with respect to any action under ยง 1600.6(a). A majority of the Board may act by taking a single vote with respect to a series of meetings, a portion or portions of which are proposed to be closed to the public, or with respect to any information concerning such series of meetings, so long as each meeting in such series involves the same particular subject matter and is scheduled to be held no more than thirty days after the initial meeting in such series. The vote of each Director participating in such vote shall be recorded and no proxy shall be allowed.

(b) Whenever any person whose interests may be directly affected by a portion of the Board's meeting requests that the Board close such portion to the public on the basis of exemptions in paragraph (a)(5), (a)(6), or (a)(7) of ยง 1600.6, the Board, upon request of any one of its members, will vote whether or not to close such portion of the meeting. The vote of each Director participating in such vote shall be recorded and no proxy shall be allowed.

(c) Before every Board meeting closed on the basis of one or more of the exemptions in ยง 1600.6(a), the Legal Counsel will publicly certify that, in Counsel's opinion, the meeting may be closed to the public and shall state each relevant exemption.

(d) Within one business day after any vote taken pursuant to paragraph (a), (b), or (c) of this section, the Board will make publicly available a written copy of the vote, reflecting the vote of each Board member. Except to the extent that such information is exempt from disclosure, if a meeting or portion of a meeting is to be closed to the public, the Board will make publicly available within one business day after the required vote a full written explanation of its action, together with a list of all persons expected to attend the meeting and their affiliation.