##### § 644.118 Awards. #####

(a) *Approval by Division or District.* Division or District Engineers and the Chiefs of the Real Estate Divisions have been authorized to approve court awards (including jury or commission awards) where such awards do not exceed the highest testimony presented at the trial by a qualified appraiser employed by the Government. In such cases, the United States Attorney will be notified that the award is approved and the Chief of Engineers will be notified of such action.

(b) *Approval by Chief of Engineers.* (1) If the award is in excess of the highest testimony presented at the trial by a qualified appraiser employed by the Government, or involves a matter of a doubtful or controversial nature, a report concerning the trial will be forwarded by the Division or District Engineer to DAEN-REA-C. The report should contain, but not be limited to, the following information:

(i) The amount of the verdict or award.

(ii) The appraisal valuations given in testimony by all witnesses, including any pertinent comments on the effectiveness of the witnesses, as appropriate.

(iii) A statement of the recommendations of the United States Attorney as to the acceptance of the verdict or award, if available without causing a delay in submittal of the report.

(iv) Where the trial concerned less than all interests acquired in a given tract, the report should state the precise interests adjudicated at the trial, the other interests which remain unadjudicated, the proposed disposition of the unadjudicated interests and the amount of the deposit allocated to the unadjudicated interests.

(v) Whether or not funds are available to satisfy any deficiency plus interest.

(2) Long narrative reports of the events at the trial or hearing are not necessary except in unusual cases. A brief, but complete, statement of the pertinent facts will be adequate in most cases. A form for use in connection with submission of trial reports is included in Figure 5-9 in ER 405-1-12; however, it is not intended that this form constitute the entire report. Where the case was tried by a Commission, copies of the Commissioners' Report will be submitted with each copy of the trial report. Close liaison must be maintained with the United States Attorney's Office in order that these reports will be received promptly after they are filed in the case.

(3) The report outlined above should be accompanied by the recommendation of the Division or District Engineer as to what action should be taken with respect to the Commissioner's Report, court award or jury verdict. This recommendation should include a discussion of any matters which should be considered by the Chief of Engineers in determining whether the award is satisfactory, e.g., the history of past awards at this project or in the same judicial district, the basis used by the commission in arriving at its determination of value, whether enhancement from the project or a second taking was an issue, the disposition of any accepted Offer to Sell on any tract involved in the trial, etc. (The basis of findings of value to be included in the report of a commission appointed under Rule 71A(h) was considered by the Supreme Court in *United States* v. *Merz,* 376 U.S. 192). Where the recommendation is to reject the award, specific reasons with supporting legal analysis should be given. The fact, standing alone, that an award is considered excessive is not sufficient reason upon which to base an appeal.

(4) The report and recommendation should be received by the Chief of Engineers within five working days after the Commissioners' Report has been filed or the trial concluded. In order to accomplish reporting within the prescribed time limits, District Engineers will forward reports and recommendations direct to DAEN-REA-C, with a copy to the appropriate Division Engineer. The Division Engineer will submit comments and recommendations to DAEN-REA-C within three working days after receipt of the copy of the District Engineer's report. The District must insure that our right to object is extended if the situation warrants.

(c) *Payment of awards and settlements.* (1) If an award or stipulated settlement requires the deposit of a deficiency, judgment will be entered by the court and thereafter transmitted to the Division or District Engineer by the Department of Justice for procurement of a check for deposit in the registry of the court in satisfaction of the final judgment.

(2) The copy of the letter from the Chief of Engineers to the Department of Justice recommending approval of an award or settlement, if required under §§ 644.117(b)(3) and 644.118(b), will constitute authority for payment of the deficiency, provided funds are available. If approval is not recommended by the Chief of Engineers to the Department of Justice and the judgment is submitted to the Division or District Engineer for payment, it should be forwarded to DAEN-REA-C without action. Upon receipt of a judgment where payment is authorized and funds are available, the Division or District Engineer will immediately procure and deliver the check to the United States Attorney and inform DAEN-REA-C of the action taken.