##### § 74.2 What are the eligibility requirements a concern must meet for VetBiz VIP Verification Program? #####

Link to an amendment published at 83 FR 48229, Sept. 24, 2018.

(a) *Ownership and control.* A small business concern must be unconditionally owned and controlled by one or more eligible veterans, service-disabled veterans or surviving spouses, have completed the online Vendor Information Pages database forms at *http://www.VetBiz.gov,* and has been examined by VA's Center for Veterans Enterprise. Such businesses appear in the VIP database as “verified.”

(b) *Good character.* Veterans, service-disabled veterans and surviving spouses with ownership interests in VetBiz verified businesses must have good character. Debarred or suspended concerns or concerns owned or controlled by debarred or suspended persons are ineligible for VetBiz VIP Verification.

(c) *False statements.* If, during the processing of an application, CVE determines that an applicant has knowingly submitted false information, regardless of whether correct information would cause CVE to deny the application, and regardless of whether correct information was given to CVE in accompanying documents, CVE will deny the application. If, after verifying the Participant's eligibility, CVE discovers that false information has been knowingly submitted by a firm, CVE will remove the “verified” status from the VIP database and notify the business by phone and mail. Whenever CVE determines that the applicant submitted false information, the matter will be referred to the Office of Inspector General for review. In addition, the CVE will request that debarment proceedings be initiated by the Department.

(d) *Federal financial obligations.* Neither a firm nor any of its eligible individuals that fails to pay significant financial obligations owed to the Federal Government, including unresolved tax liens and defaults on Federal loans or other Federally assisted financing, is eligible for VetBiz VIP Verification.

(e) *U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) Protest Decisions.* Any firm registered in the VetBiz VIP database that is found to be ineligible due to an SBA protest decision or other negative finding will be immediately removed from the VetBiz VIP database. Until such time as CVE receives official notification that the firm has proven that it has successfully overcome the grounds for the determination or that the SBA decision is overturned on appeal, the firm will not be eligible to participate in the 38 U.S.C. 8127 program.