##### § 1.132-4T Line of business limitation - 1985 through 1988 (temporary). #####

(a) *In general* - (1) *Applicability* - (i) *General rule.* A no-additional-cost service or qualified employee discount provided to an employee must be for property or services that are offered for sale to customers in the ordinary course of the same line of business in which the employee receiving the property or service performs substantial services. Thus, an employee who does not perform substantial services in a particular line of business of the employer may not exclude the value of services or employee discounts received on property or services in that line of business.

(ii) *Property and services sold to employees rather than customers.* Since the property or services must be offered for sale to customers in the ordinary course of the same line of business in which the employee performs substantial services, the line of business limitation is not satisfied if the employer's products or services are sold to employees of the employer, rather than to customers. Thus, for example, an employer in the banking line of business is not considered in the variety store line of business if the employer establishes an employee store that offers variety store items for sale to the employer's employees.

(iii) *Performance of substantial services in more than one line of business.* An employee who performs services in more than one of the employer's lines of business may only exclude no-additional-cost services and qualified employee discounts in the lines of business in which the employee performs substantial services.

(iv) *Performance of services that directly benefit more than one line of business* - (A) *In general.* An employee who performs substantial services that directly benefit more than one line of business of an employer is treated as performing substantial services in all such lines of business. For example, an employee who maintains accounting records for an employer's three lines of business may receive qualified employee discounts in all three lines of business.

(B) *Significantly interrelated minor line of business.* The employees of a minor line of business of an employer that is significantly interrelated with a major line of business of the employer who perform substantial services that directly benefit both the major and the minor lines of business are treated as employees of both the major and the minor lines of business. Employees of the minor line of business who do not perform substantial services which directly benefit the major line of business are not treated as employees of the major line of business. A minor line of business is significantly interrelated with a major line of business when, for example, the activity of the minor line of business is directly related to but is a minor part of the major line of business (such as laundry services provided at a hospital).

(C) *Examples.* The rules provided in this paragraph are illustrated in the following examples:

Example 1.Assume that employees of units of an employer provide repair or financing services, or sell by catalog, with respect to retail merchandise sold by the employer. Such employees may be considered as employees of the retail merchandise line of business under this paragraph (a)(1)(iv).Example 2.Assume that an employer operates a hospital and a laundry service. Assume further that some of the gross receipts of the laundry service line of business are from laundry services sold to customers other than the hospital employer. Only the employees of the laundry service who perform substantial services which directly benefit the hospital line of business (through the provision of laundry services to the hospital) will be treated as employees of the hospital line of business. Other employees of the laundry service line of business will not be treated as employees of the hospital line of business.Example 3.Assume the same facts as in example (2), except that the minor line of business also operates a chain of dry cleaning stores. Employees who perform substantial services which directly benefit the dry cleaning stores but who do not perform substantial services that directly benefit the hospital line of business will not be treated as employees of the hospital line of business.

(2) *Definition* - (i) *In general.* An employer's line of business is determined by reference to the Enterprise Standard Industrial Classification Manual (ESIC Manual) prepared by the Statistical Policy Division of the U.S. Office of Management and Budget. An employer is considered to have more than one line of business if the employer offers for sale to customers property or services in more than one two-digit code classification referred to in the ESIC Manual.

(ii) *Examples.* Examples of two-digit classifications are general retail merchandise stores; hotels and other lodging places; auto repair, services, and garages; and food stores.

(3) *Aggregation of two-digit classifications.* If, pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) of this section, an employer has more than one line of business, such lines of business will be treated as a single line of business where and to the extent that one or more of the following aggregation rules apply:

(i) If it is uncommon in the industry of the employer for any of the separate lines of business of the employer to be operated without the others, the separate lines of business are treated as one line of business.

(ii) If it is common for a substantial number of employees (other than those employees who work at the headquarters or main office of the employer) to perform substantial services for more than one line of business of the employer, so that determination of which employees perform substantial services for which line of business would be difficult, then the separate lines of business of the employer in which such employees perform substantial services are treated as one line of business. For example, assume that an employer operates a delicatessen with an attached service counter at which food is sold for consumption on the premises. Assume further that most but not all employees work both at the delicatessen and at the service counter. The delicatessen and the service counter are treated as one line of business.

(iii) If the retail operations of an employer that are located on the same premises are in separate lines of business but would be considered to be within one line of business under paragraph (a)(2) of this section if the merchandise offered for sale in such lines of business were offered for sale at a department store, then the operations are treated as one line of business. For example, assume that on the same premises an employer sells both women's apparel and jewelry. Since, if sold together at a department store, the operations would be part of the same line of business, the operations are treated as one line of business.

(b) *Grandfather rule for certain retail stores* - (1) *In general.* The line of business limitation may be relaxed under a special grandfather rule. If -

(i) On October 5, 1983, 85 percent of the employees of one member of an affiliated group (as defined in section 1504 without regard to subsections (b)(2) and (b)(4) thereof) were entitled to employee discounts at retail department stores operated by another member of the affiliated group, and

(ii) More than 50 percent of the current year's sales of the affiliated group are attributable to the operation of retail department stores,

then for purposes of the exclusion from gross income of a qualified employee discount, the first member is treated as engaged in the same line of business as the second member (the operator of the retail department stores). Therefore, employees of the first member of the affiliated group may exclude qualified employee discounts received at the retail department stores operated by the second member. However, employees of the second member of the affiliated group may not exclude any discounts received on property or services offered for sale to customers by the first member of the affiliated group.

(2) *Taxable year of affiliated group.* If all of the members do not have the same taxable year, the affiliated group must designate the 12-month period to be used in determining the “current year's sales” (as referred to in this paragraph (b)). The 12-month period designated, however, must be used consistently.

(3) *Definition of “sales”.* For purposes of this paragraph (b), the term “sales” means the gross receipts of the affiliated group, based upon the accounting methods used by its members.

(4) *Retired and disabled employees.* For purposes of this paragraph (b), an employee includes any individual who was, or whose spouse was, formerly employed by the first member of the affiliated group and who separated from service with the member by reason of retirement or disability if the second member of the group provided employee discounts to such individuals on October 5, 1983.

(5) *Increase of employee discount.* If, after October 5, 1983, the employee discount described in this paragraph (b) is increased, the grandfather rule of this paragraph (b) does not apply to the amount of the increase. For example, if on January 1, 1985, the employee discount is increased from 10 percent to 15 percent, the grandfather rule will not apply to the additional five percent discount.

(c) *Relaxation of line of business requirement.* The line of business requirement may be relaxed under an elective grandfather rule provided in section 4977. For rules relating to the section 4977 election, see § 54.4977-1.

[T.D. 8063, 50 FR 52301, Dec. 23, 1985, as amended by T.D. 8256, 54 FR 28600, July 6, 1989]