##### § 1.108(i)-3 Rules for the deduction of OID. #####

(a) *Deemed debt-for-debt exchanges*—(1) *In general.* For purposes of section 108(i)(2) (relating to deferred OID deductions that arise in certain debt-for-debt exchanges involving the reacquisition of an applicable debt instrument), if the proceeds of any debt instrument are used directly or indirectly by the issuer or a person related to the issuer (within the meaning of section 108(i)(5)(A)) to reacquire an applicable debt instrument, the debt instrument shall be treated as issued for the applicable debt instrument being reacquired. Therefore, section 108(i)(2) may apply, for example, to a debt instrument issued by a corporation for cash in which some or all of the proceeds are used directly or indirectly by the corporation's related subsidiary in the reacquisition of the subsidiary's applicable debt instrument.

(2) *Directly or indirectly.* Whether the proceeds of an issuance of a debt instrument are used directly or indirectly to reacquire an applicable debt instrument depends upon all of the facts and circumstances surrounding the issuance and the reacquisition. The proceeds of an issuance of a debt instrument will be treated as being used indirectly to reacquire an applicable debt instrument if—

(i) At the time of the issuance of the debt instrument, the issuer of the debt instrument anticipated that an applicable debt instrument of the issuer or a person related to the issuer would be reacquired by the issuer, and the debt instrument would not have been issued if the issuer had not so anticipated such reacquisition;

(ii) At the time of the issuance of the debt instrument, the issuer of the debt instrument or a person related to the issuer anticipated that an applicable debt instrument would be reacquired by a related person and the related person receives cash or property that it would not have received unless the reacquisition had been so anticipated; or

(iii) At the time of the reacquisition, the issuer or a person related to the issuer foresaw or reasonably should have foreseen that the issuer or a person related to the issuer would be required to issue a debt instrument, which it would not have otherwise been required to issue if the reacquisition had not occurred, in order to meet its future economic needs.

(b) *Proportional rule for accruals of OID.* For purposes of section 108(i)(2), if only a portion of the proceeds from the issuance of a debt instrument are used directly or indirectly to reacquire an applicable debt instrument, the rules of section 108(i)(2)(A) will apply to the portion of OID on the debt instrument that is equal to the portion of the proceeds from such instrument used to reacquire the outstanding applicable debt instrument. Except as provided in the last sentence of section 108(i)(2)(A), the amount of deferred OID deduction that is subject to section 108(i)(2)(A) for a taxable year is equal to the product of the amount of OID that accrues in the taxable year under section 1272 or section 1275 (and the regulations under those sections), whichever section is applicable, and a fraction, the numerator of which is the portion of the total proceeds from the issuance of the debt instrument used directly or indirectly to reacquire the applicable debt instrument and the denominator of which is the total proceeds from the issuance of the debt instrument.

(c) *No acceleration*—(1) *Retirement.* Retirement of a debt instrument subject to section 108(i)(2) does not accelerate deferred OID deductions.

(2) *Cross-reference.* See § 1.108(i)-1 and § 1.108(i)-2 for rules relating to the acceleration of deferred OID deductions.

(d) *Examples.* The application of this section is illustrated by the following examples. Unless otherwise stated, all taxpayers in the following examples are calendar-year taxpayers, and P and S each file separate returns:

Example 1.(i) *Facts.* P, a domestic corporation, owns all of the stock of S, a domestic corporation. S has a debt instrument outstanding that has an adjusted issue price of $100,000. On January 1, 2010, P issues for $160,000 a four-year debt instrument that has an issue price of $160,000 and a stated redemption price at maturity of $200,000, resulting in $40,000 of OID. In P's discussion with potential lenders/holders, and as described in offering materials provided to potential lenders/holders, P disclosed that it planned to use all or a portion of the proceeds from the issuance of the debt instrument to reacquire outstanding debt of P and its affiliates. Following the issuance, P makes a $70,000 capital contribution to S. S then reacquires its debt instrument from X, a person not related to S within the meaning of section 108(i)(5)(A), for $70,000. At the time of the reacquisition, the adjusted issue price of S's debt instrument is $100,000. Under § 1.61-12(c), S realizes $30,000 of COD income. S makes a section 108(i) election for the $30,000 of COD income.

(ii) *Analysis.* Under the facts, at the time of P's issuance of its $160,000 debt instrument, P anticipated that the loan proceeds would be used to reacquire the debt of S, and P's debt instrument would not have been issued for an amount greater than $90,000 if P had not anticipated that S would use the proceeds to reacquire its debt. Pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, the proceeds from P's issuance of its debt instrument are treated as being used indirectly to reacquire S's applicable debt instrument. Therefore, section 108(i)(2)(B) applies to P's debt instrument and P's OID deductions on its debt instrument are subject to deferral under section 108(i)(2)(A). However, because only a portion of the proceeds from P's debt instrument are used by S to reacquire its applicable debt instrument, only a portion of P's total OID deductions will be deferred under section 108(i)(2)(A). See section 108(i)(2)(B). Accordingly, a maximum of $17,500 ($40,000 × $70,000/$160,000) of P's $40,000 total OID deductions is subject to deferral under section 108(i)(2)(A). Under paragraph (b) of this section, the amount of P's deferred OID deduction each taxable year under section 108(i)(2)(A) is equal to the product of the amount of OID that accrues in the taxable year under section 1272 for the debt instrument and a fraction ($70,000/$160,000). As a result, P's deferred OID deductions are the following amounts: $4,015.99 for 2010 ($9,179.40 × $70,000/$160,000); $4,246.39 for 2011 ($9,706.04 × $70,000/$160,000); $4,490.01 for 2012 ($10,262.88 × $70,000/$160,000); and $4,747.61 for 2013 ($10,851.68 × $70,000/$160,000).

Example 2.(i) *Facts.* The facts are the same as in *Example 1,* except that S makes a section 108(i) election for only $10,000 of the $30,000 of COD income.

(ii) *Analysis.* The maximum amount of P's deferred OID deductions under section 108(i)(2)(A) is $10,000 rather than $17,500 because S made a section 108(i) election for only $10,000 of the $30,000 of COD income. Under section 108(i)(2)(A), because the amount of OID that accrues prior to 2014 attributable to the portion of the debt instrument issued to indirectly reacquire S's applicable debt instrument under paragraph (b) of this section ($17,500) exceeds the amount of deferred COD income under section 108(i) ($10,000), P's deferred OID deductions are the following amounts: $4,015.99 for 2010; $4,246.39 for 2011; $1,737.62 for 2012; and $0 for 2013.

Example 3.(i) *Facts.* The facts are the same as in *Example 1,* except that P pays $200,000 in cash to the lenders/holders on December 31, 2012, to retire the debt instrument. P did not directly or indirectly obtain the funds to retire the debt instrument from the issuance of another debt instrument with OID.

(ii) *Analysis.* Under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the retirement of P's debt instrument is not an acceleration event for the deferred OID deductions of $4,015.99 for 2010, $4,246.39 for 2011, and $4,490.01 for 2012. Except as provided in § 1.108(i)-1(b)(4), these amounts will be taken into account during the inclusion period. P, however, paid a repurchase premium of $10,851.68 in 2012 ($200,000 minus the adjusted issue price of $189,148.32) to retire the debt instrument. If otherwise allowable, P may deduct this amount in 2012 under § 1.163-7(c).

(e) *Effective/applicability dates.* For *effective/applicability dates,* see § 1.108(i)-0(b).

[T.D. 9622, 78 FR 39991, July 3, 2013]