##### § 1.103(n)-3T Private activity bond limit (temporary). #####

Q-1: What is the “State ceiling”?

A-1: In general, the State ceiling applicable to each State and the District of Columbia for any calendar year prior to 1987 shall be the greater of $200 million or an amount equal to $150 multiplied by the State's (or the District of Columbia's) population. In the case of any territory or possession of the United States, the State ceiling for any calendar year prior to 1987 shall be an amount equal to $150 multiplied by the population of such territory or possession. In the case of calendar years after 1986, the two preceding sentences shall be applied by substituting “$100” for “$150.” In the case of any State that had an excess bond amount for 1983, the State ceiling for calendar year 1984 shall be the sum of the State ceiling determined under the general rule plus 50 percent of the excess bond amount for 1983. The excess bond amount for 1983 is the excess (if any) of (i) the aggregate amount of private activity bonds issued by issuing authorities in such State during the first 9 months of calendar year 1983 multiplied by4/3, over (ii) the State ceiling determined under the general rule for 1984. For purposes of determining the State ceiling amount applicable to any any State for calendar year 1984, an issuer may rely upon the State ceiling amount published by the Treasury Department for such calendar year. However, an issuer may compute a different excess bond amount for 1983 where the issuer or the State in which the issuer is located has made a more accurate determination of the amount of private activity bonds issued by issuing authorities in the issuer's State during 1983. See A-7 of this § 1.103(n)-3T for rules regarding a State containing constitutional home rule cities.

Q-2: What is the private activity bond limit for a State agency?

A-2: Under section 103(n)(2) the private activity bond limit for any agency of the State authorized to issue private activity bonds for any calendar year shall be 50 percent of the State ceiling for such year unless the State provides for a different allocation. For this purpose, the State is considered an agency. See, however, A-17 of this § 1.103(n)-3T with respect to the penalty for failure to comply with the requirements of section 631(a)(3) of the Tax Reform Act of 1984.

Q-3: How is private activity bond limit determined where a State has more than one agency?

A-3: If any State has more than one agency (including the State) authorized to issue private activity bonds, all such agencies shall be treated as a single agency for purposes of determining the aggregate private activity bond limit available for all such agencies. Each of the State agencies is treated as having jurisdiction over the entire State. Therefore, under A-8 of this § 1.103(n)-3T the aggregate private activity bond limit for all the State agencies is allocated to the State since it possesses the broadest sovereign powers of any of the State agencies. Each other State agency's private activity bond limit is zero until it is assigned part of the private activity bond limit of another governmental unit pursuant to these regulations.

Q-4: What is a State agency?

A-4: A State agency is an agency authorized by a State to issue private activity bonds on behalf of the State. In addition, a special purpose governmental unit that derives its sovereign powers from the State and may exercise its sovereign powers throughout the State is a State agency. See A-5 of this § 1.103(n)-3T for the definition of the term “special purpose governmental unit.” The term “State agency” does not include issuing authorities empowered by a State at the request of another governmental unit within the State to issue private activity bonds to provide facilities within the jurisdiction of such other governmental unit. For example, if County O requests the legislature of State P to create an issuing authority empowered to issue obligations to provide pollution control facilities in County O, the authority is not a State agency.

*Examples.* The following examples illustrate the provisions of A-3 and A-4 of this § 1.103(n)-3T:

Example 1.For 1987 State Q has a State ceiling of $200 million. Neither the Governor nor the legislature of State Q has provided a formula for allocating the State ceiling different from that provided by section 103(n) (2) and (3). State Q has authorized the following State agencies to issue private activity bonds on its behalf: Authority M, Authority N, and Authority O. The aggregate private activity bond limit available for State agencies of State Q is $100 million. As of January 1, 1987, none of this aggregate private activity bond limit has been assigned to any of Authorities M, N, or O. On January 1, 1987, Authority M issues $25 million of private activity bonds. During 1987, the duly authorized official designated by State Q to allocate the aggregate private activity bond limit among the three authorities does not allocate any of the State's private activity bond limit to Authority M. The January 1, 1987, issue does not meet the requirements of section 103(n) since Authority M has no private activity bond limit for 1987.Example 2.Under the laws of State U, only the State legislature can create constituted authorities empowered to issue private activity bonds on behalf of governmental units within State U. Authority R was created by the State U legislature at the request of County X. Authority R is a constituted authority empowered to issue private activity bonds on behalf of County X to provide facilities located in County X. Authority S was created by the legislature to issue private activity bonds to provide pollution control facilities throughout the State. Authority S is a State agency as defined in A-4 of this § 1.103(n)-3T. Authority R it is not a State agency.

Q-5: What is a governmental unit?

A-5: The term “governmental unit” has the meaning given such term by § 1.103-1. For purposes of §§ 1.103(n)-1T through 1.103(n)-6T, a governmental unit is either a general purpose governmental unit or a special purpose governmental unit. The term “general purpose governmental unit” means a State, territory, possession of the United States, the District of Columbia, or any general purpose political subdivision thereof. The term “general purpose political subdivision” denotes any division of government that possesses the right to exercise police powers, the power to tax, and the power of eminent domain and that is governed, at least in part, by popularly elected officials (e.g., county, city, town, township, parish, village). The term “special purpose governmental unit” means any governmental unit as defined in § 1.103-1 other than a general purpose governmental unit. For example, a sewer authority with the power of eminent domain but without police powers is a special purpose governmental unit. A constituted authority empowered to issue private activity bonds on behalf of a governmental unit is not a governmental unit.

Q-6: What is the private activity bond limit for a general purpose governmental unit other than a State, the District of Columbia, a territory, or a possession?

A-6: The private activity bond limit for any such general purpose governmental unit for any calendar year is an amount equal to the general purpose governmental unit's proportionate share of 50 percent of the State ceiling amount for such calendar year. See A-10 of this § 1.103(n)-3T with respect to the rules for providing a different allocation. The proportionate share of a general purpose governmental unit is an amount that bears the same ratio to 50 percent of the State ceiling for such year as the population of the jurisdiction of such general purpose governmental unit bears to the population of the entire State, District of Columbia, territory, or possession in which its jurisdiction falls. See, however, A-17 of this § 1.103(n)-3T with respect to the penalty for failure to comply with the requirements of section 631(a)(3) of the Tax Reform Act of 1984. See A-9 of this § 1.103(n)-3T with respect to the private activity bond limit of issuing authorities other than general purpose governmental units.

Q-7: What is the private activity bond limit for a general purpose governmental unit in a State with one or more constitutional homes rule cities?

A-7: The private activity bond limit for a constitutional home rule city for any calendar year is an amount equal to the constitutional home rule city's proportionate share of 100 percent of the State ceiling amount for the calendar year. The proportionate share of a constitutional home rule city is an amount that bears the same ratio to the State ceiling for such year as the population of the jurisdiction of such constitutional home rule city bears to the population of the entire State. The private activity bond limit for issuers other than constitutional home rule cities is computed in the manner described in A-2 through A-6 of this § 1.103(n)-3T, except that in computing the private activity bond limit for issuers other than such constitutional home rule cities, the State ceiling amount for any calendar year shall be reduced by the aggregate private activity bond limit for all constitutional home rule cities in the State. The term “constitutional home rule city” means, with respect to any calendar year, any political subdivision of a State that, under a State constitution that was adopted in 1970 and effective on July 1, 1971, had home rule powers on the first day of the calendar year. See, however, A-17 of this § 1.103(n)-3T with respect to the penalty for failure to comply with the requirements of section 631(a)(3) of the Tax Reform Act of 1984.

Q-8: How is the private activity bond limit of an issuing authority determined under section 103(n)(3) when there are overlapping jurisdictions?

A-8: If an area is within the jurisdiction of two or more governmental units, that area will be treated as only within the jurisdiction of the governmental unit having jurisdiction over the smallest geographical area. However, the governmental unit with jurisdiction over the smallest geographical area may enter into a written agreement to allocate all or a designated portion of such overlapping area to the governmental unit having jurisdiction over the next smallest geographical area. Where two or more issuing authorities, whether governmental units or constituted authorities, have authority to issue private activity bonds and both issuing authorities have jurisdiction over the identical geographical area, that area will be treated as only within the jurisdiction of the one having the broadest sovereign powers. However, the issuing authority having the broadest sovereign powers may enter into a written agreement to allocate all or a designated portion of such area to the one with the narrower sovereign powers. All written agreements entered into pursuant to this A-8 must be retained by the assignee in its records for the term of all private activity bonds it issues in each calendar year to which such agreement applies. See A-9 of this § 1.103(n)-3T with respect to the private activity bond limit of issuing authorities other than general purpose governmental units.

Q-9: What is the private activity bond limit of an issuing authority (other than a State agency) that is not a general purpose governmental unit?

A-9: A constituted authority empowered to issue private activity bonds on behalf of a governmental unit is treated as having jurisdiction over the same geographical area as the governmental unit on behalf of which it is empowered to issue private activity bonds. Since a governmental unit has broader sovereign powers than a constituted authority empowered to issue private activity bonds on its behalf, a constituted authority has a private activity bond limit under section 103(n) (2) and (3) of zero. Similarly, a special purpose governmental unit is treated for purposes of section 103(n) as having jurisdiction over the same geographical area as that of the general purpose governmental unit or units from which the special purpose governmental unit derives its sovereign powers. Since a general purpose governmental unit has broader sovereign powers than a special purpose governmental unit, a special purpose governmental unit has a private activity bond limit under section 103(n) (2) and (3) of zero. An issuer of qualified scholarship funding bonds, as defined in section 103(e), is treated for purposes of section 103(n) as issuing on behalf of the State or politicial subdivision or subdivisions that requested its organization or its exercise of power to issue bonds. See A-13 and A-14 of this § 103(n)-3T with respect to assignments of private activity bond limit. For purposes of §§ 1.103(n)-1T through 1.103(n)-6T, a special purpose governmental unit shall be considered to derive its authority from the smallest general purpose governmental unit that -

(i) Enacts a specific law (e.g., a provision of a State constitution, charter, or statute) by or under which the special purpose governmental unit is created, or

(ii) Otherwise empowers, approves, or requests the creation of the special purpose governmental unit, or

(iii) Appoints members to the governing body of the special purpose governmental unit,

and within which general purpose governmental unit falls the entire area in which such special purpose governmental unit may exercise its sovereign powers. If no one general purpose governmental unit meets such criteria (e.g., a regional special purpose governmental unit that exercises its sovereign powers within three counties pursuant to a separate ordinance adopted by each such county), such special purpose governmental unit shall be considered to derive its sovereign powers from each of the general purpose governmental units comprising the combination of smallest general purpose governmental units within which falls the entire area in which such special purpose governmental unit may exercise its sovereign powers and each of which meets (i), (ii), or (iii) above.

Q-10: Does the issue comply with the requirements of section 103 (n) under the following circumstances? Based on the most recent estimate of the resident population of State Y published by the Bureau of the Census before the beginning of 1988, the State ceiling for State Y is $200 million. Based on the same estimate, the population of City Q is one-fourth of the population of State Y. No part of the geographical area within the jurisidiction of City Q is within the jurisdiction of any other governmental unit with jurisdiction over a smaller geographical area. There are no consitutional home rule cities in State Y. Neither the Governor nor the legislature of State Y has provided a different formula for allocating the State ceiling than that provided by section 103(n) (2) and (3); thus, City Q's private activity bond limit for 1988 is $25 million (.25 × .50 × $200 million). As of March 1, 1988, City Q has issued $15 million of private activity bonds during calendar year 1988, none of which were issued pursuant to a carryforward election made in a prior year. On March 1, 1988, City Q will issue $5 million of private activity bonds to provide a pollution control facility as described in section 103(b)(4) (F). C, a duly authorized official of City Q responsible for issuing the bonds, provides a statement that will be included in the bond indenture or a related document providing that -

(i) Under section 103(n) (2) and (3) of the Internal Revenue Code, City Q has a private activity bond limit of $25 million for calendar year 1988 (.25 × .50 × $200 million), none of which has been assigned to it by another governmental unit,

(ii) State Y has not provided a different method of allocating the State ceiling,

(iii) City Q has not assigned any portion of its private activity bond limit to a constituted authority empowered to issue private activity bonds on its behalf, or to any other governmental unit,

(iv) City Q has not elected to carry forward any of its private activity bond limit for 1988 to another calendar year, nor has City Q in any prior year made a carryforward election for the pollution control facility,

(v) The aggregate amount of private activity bonds issued by City Q during 1988 is $15 million, and

(vi) The issuance of $5 million of private activity bonds on March 1, 1988, will not violate the requirements of section 103 (n) and the regulations thereunder.

In addition, C provides the certification described in section 103 (n) (12) (A).

A-10: Based on these facts, the issue meets the requirements of section 103(n) and §§ 1.103(n)-1T through 1.103(n)-6T. See § 1.103-13(b)(8) for the definition of the terms “bond indenture” and“related documents.”

Q-11: May a State provide a different formula for allocating the state ceiling?

A-11: A State, by law enacted at any time, may provide a different formula for allocating the State ceiling among the governmental units in the State (other than constitutional home rule cities) having authority to issue private activity bonds, subject to the limitation provided in A-12 of this § 1.103(n)-3T. The governor of a State may proclaim a different formula for allocating the State ceiling among the governmental units in such State having authority to issue private activity bonds. The authority of the governor to proclaim a different formula shall not apply after the earlier of (i) the first day of the first calendar year beginning after the legislature of the State has met in regular session for more than 60 days after July 18, 1984, and (ii) the effective date of any State legislation dealing with the allocation of the State ceiling. If, on or before either date, the governor of any State exercises the authority to provide a different allocation, such allocation shall be effective until the date specified in (ii) of the immediately preceding sentence. Unless otherwise provided in a State constitutional amendment or by a law changing the home rule provisions adopted in the manner provided by the State constitution, the allocation of that portion of the State ceiling that is allocated to any constitutional home rule city may not be changed by the governor or State legislature unless such city agrees to such different allocation.

Q-12: Where a State provides an allocation formula different from that provided in section 103 (n) (2) and (3), which allocation formula applies to obligations issued prior to the adoption of the different allocation formula?

A-12: Where a State provides a different allocation formula, the determination as to whether a particular bond issue meets the requirements of section 103(n) will be based upon the allocation formula in effect at the time such bonds were issued. The amount that may be reallocated pursuant to the later allocation formula is limited to the State ceiling for such year reduced by the amount of private activity bonds issued under the prior allocation formula in effect for such year.

Q-13: May an issuing authority assign a portion of its private activity bond limit to another issuing authority if the governor or legislature has not provided for an allocation formula different from that provided in section 103(n) (2) and (3)?

A-13: Except as provided in this A-13 or in A-8, A-14, or A-15 of this § 1.103(n)-3T, no issuing authority may assign, directly or indirectly, all or any portion of its private activity bond limit to any other issuing authority, and no such attempted assignment will be effective. However, a general purpose governmental unit may assign a portion of its private activity bond limit to (i) a constituted authority empowered to issue private activity bonds on behalf of the assigning governmental unit, and (ii) a special purpose governmental unit deriving sovereign powers from the governmental unit making the assignment. In addition, a State may assign a portion of its private activity bond limit to a constituted authority empowered to issue private activity bonds on behalf of any governmental unit within such State and to any governmental unit within such State. Finally, an issuing authority that is assigned all or a portion of the private activity bond limit of a governmental unit pursuant to the immediately preceding two sentences may assign such amount or any part thereof to the governmental unit from which it received the assignment. None of these permissible types of assignments shall be effective, however, unless made in writing by a duly authorized official of the governmental unit making the assignment and a record of the assignment is maintained by the assignee for the term of all private activity bonds it issues in each calendar year to which such assignment applies. None of these permissible types of assignments shall be effective if made retroactively; provided, however, that retroactive assignments may be made during 1984. In addition, except as provided in A-15 of this § 1.103(n)-3T, a purported assignment by a governmental unit of a portion of its private activity bond limit to an issuing authority will be ineffective to the extent that private activity bonds issued by such authority provide facilities not located within the jurisdiction of the governmental unit making the assignment, unless the sole beneficiary of the facility is the governmental unit attempting to make the assignment. Similarly, except as provided in A-15 of this § 1.103(n)-3T, a governmental unit may not allocate a portion of its private activity bond limit to an issue of obligations to provide a facility not located within the jurisdiction of that governmental unit unless the sole beneficiary of the facility is the governmental unit attempting to allocate its private activity bond limit to the issue. If an issuing authority issues an issue of obligations a portion of the proceeds of which are to be used to provide a facility not within its jurisdiction other than one described in the immediately preceding sentence, that issue will not meet the requirements of section 103(n) unless an issuing authority within the jurisdiction of which the facility is to be located specifically allocates a portion of its private activity bond limit to such issue equal to the amount of proceeds to be used to provide such facility.

Q-14: May an issuing authority assign a portion of its private activity bond limit to another issuing authority if the governor or legislature has provided for an allocation formula different from that provided in section 103(n) (2) and (3)?

A-14: Yes, under certain conditions. In providing a different formula for allocating the State ceiling, a State may permit an issuing authority to assign all or a portion of its private activity bond limit to other issuing authorities within the State, provided that such assignment is made in writing and a record of that assignment is maintained by the assignee in its records for the term of all private activity bonds it issues in each calendar year to which such assignment applies and a record of that assignment is maintained during such period by the public official responsible for making allocations of the State ceiling to issuing authorities within the State. The preceding sentence will only apply where the different formula expressly permits such assignments. Notwithstanding this A-14, no assignments may be made to regional authorities without compliance with the provisions of A-15 of this § 1.103(n)-3T.

Q-15: May a general purpose governmental unit assign a portion of its private activity bond limit to a regional authority empowered to issue private activity bonds on behalf of two or more general purpose governmental units?

A-15: Yes, under certain conditions. In order for an issue of private activity bonds issued by such a regional authority to meet the requirements of section 103(n), each of the governmental units on behalf of which the regional authority issues private activity bonds must assign to the regional authority a portion of its private activity bond limit based on the ratio of its population to the aggregate population of all such governmental units. The governmental unit within the jurisdiction of which the facility to be provided by the private activity bonds will be located, however, may elect to treat the regional authority as if it were a constituted authority empowered to issue such obligations solely on behalf of that governmental unit and, therefore, may assign a portion of its limit to the authority solely to provide the facility within its jurisdiction. Similarly, if a facility will solely benefit one governmental unit, that governmental unit may make the election described in the preceding sentence. In addition, any of the governmental units on behalf of which the regional authority issues private activity bonds, other than the governmental unit within the jurisdiction of which the facility will be located, may elect to be treated as if it had not empowered the authority to issue that issue of private activity bonds on its behalf. In providing a different formula for allocating the State ceiling, a State may permit a governmental unit to assign all or a portion of its private activity bond limit to a constituted authority empowered to issue private activity bonds on behalf of two or more governmental units, all of which are located within the State. The preceding sentence will only apply where the different formula expressly so provides. The principles of this A-15 shall not apply to any regional authority created with a principal purpose of avoiding the restrictions provided in A-13 or A-14 of this § 1.103(n)-3T. The principles of this A-15 shall also apply to a special purpose governmental unit providing facilities located within the jurisdiction of two or more general purpose governmental units from which it derives sovereign powers.

*Examples.* The following examples illustrate the provisions of A-8 through A-15 of this section:

Example 1.Authority ZZ is empowered by City Y to issue obligations on its behalf to provide financing for pollution control facilities located within the jurisdiction of City Y and the geographical area within 10 miles of the limits of City Y. Authority ZZ has no sovereign powers. Although the authority of Authority ZZ to issue obligations enables it to provide facilities located outside of the jurisdiction of City Y, Authority ZZ is treated as having jurisdiction over the same geographical area as City Y. Since City Y has broader sovereign powers than Authority ZZ, under section 103(n)(3) Authority ZZ has a private activity bond limit of zero. On March 31, 1985, Authority ZZ issues $5 million of private activity bonds. City Y has not assigned any portion of its private activity bond limit to Authority ZZ. Thus, the March 31, 1985, issue of private activity bonds is treated as an issue of obligations not described in section 103(a), and the interest on such obligations is subject to Federal income taxation.Example 2.In 1972, State S, State T, and State V empowered Authority Z to issue industrial development bonds on behalf of the three States and to provide port facilities in a harbor serving residents of all three States. S, T, and V have populations of 1,000,000, 2,000,000, and 7,000,000, respectively. Authority Z will issue $100 million of private activity bonds on September 1, 1985, to finance construction of a dock to be located in State S. The obligations will not meet the requirements of section 103(n) unless S, T, and V assign a portion of their private activity bond limits to Authority Z pursuant to one of three methods. First, S, T, and V may assign $10 million, $20 million, and $70 million, respectively, of their private activity bond limits to Authority Z for this issue. Second, S, T, and V may assign $100 million, $0, and $0, respectively, of their private activity bond limits to Authority Z for this issue. Third, either T or V (but not S) may allocate $0 of its private activity bond limit to Authority Z for purposes of this issue, and the remaining two States may allocate the $100 million based upon their respective populations. For instance, if T were to allocate $0 for purposes of this issue, S and V must allocate $12.5 million and $87.5 million, respectively, of their private activity bond limits to Authority Z.

Q-16: Must an issuing authority allocate any of its private activity bond limit to certain preliminarily approved projects?

A-16: Yes. Section 631(a)(3) of the Tax Reform Act of 1984 provides that, with respect to certain projects preliminarily approved by an issuing authority before October 19, 1983, the issuing authority shall allocate its share of the private activity bond limit for the calendar year during which the obligations are to be issued first to those projects. For purposes of this A-16 and A-17 and A-18 of this § 1.103(n)-3T, a general purpose governmental unit will be treated as having preliminarily approved a project if the project was preliminarily approved by it, by a constituted authority empowered to issue private activity bonds on its behalf, or by a special purpose governmental unit treated as having jurisdiction over the same geographical area as the general purpose governmental unit. Thus, if a project was approved by a constituted authority, the governmental unit on behalf of which such issue is to be issued must assign a portion of its private activity bond limit to the authority pursuant to section 631(a)(3) of the Act. If a project was preliminarily approved by a constituted authority empowered to issue private activity bonds on behalf or more than one general purpose governmental unit or a special purpose governmental unit that derives its sovereign powers from more than one general purpose governmental unit, the project will be considered approved by each of such general purpose governmental units in proportion to their relative populations. The projects that receive priority under section 631(a)(3) of the Act and this A-16 are those with respect to which -

(i) There was an inducement resolution (or other comparable preliminary approval) for a project before October 19, 1983, by an issuing authority,

(ii) A substantial user of the project notified such issuing authority -

(A) By August 17, 1984, that it intended to claim its rights under section 631(a)(3) of the Tax Reform Act of 1984, and

(B) By December 31, 1984, as to the calendar year in which it expects the obligations to provide the project to be issued, and

(iii) Construction of such project began before October 19, 1983, or a substantial user was under a binding obligation on that date to incur significant expenditures with respect to the project.

For purposes of the preceding sentence, the term “significant expenditures” means expenditures that equal or exceed the lesser of $15 million or 20 percent of the estimated cost of the facilities. An issuing authority may require, as part of the submission required by (ii)(B) of this A-16, that a substantial user specify the aggregate amount of private activity bonds necessary for the project. Section 631(a)(3) does not apply to a project to the extent that the aggregate amount of obligations required for such project exceeds the amount, if any, provided for in the inducement resolution or resolutions in existence with respect to such project before October 19, 1983, or in the statement that may be required by the issuing authority as part of the submission required by (ii)(B) of this A-16. Similarly, section 631(a)(3) does not apply to a project to the extent of any material change in its nature, character, purpose, or capacity. Section 631(a)(3) does not apply to a project if the owner, operator, or manager of such project is not the same (or a related person) as the owner, operator, or manager named in the latest inducement resolution with respect to such project in existence before October 19, 1983. Section 631(a)(3) of the Act does not apply to any project if the obligations to provide the project are not issued in the year specified in the submission required by (ii)(B) of this A-16. In addition, section 631(a)(3) of the Act does not apply to any project to the extent that the amount of obligations to be issued for such project exceeds the share of the State ceiling to which the issuing authority that authorized the project is entitled as determined under section 103(n) (2) and (3) without regard to any alternative formula for allocating the State ceiling. The requirements of section 631(a)(3) will not apply where a State statute specifically so provides.

Q-17: What is the penalty for failure to comply with the requirements of section 631(a)(3) of the Act?

A-17: If any issuing authority fails to comply with the requirements of section 631(a)(3) of the Act, its private activity bond limit for the calendar year following the year in which the failure occurs shall be reduced by the amount of private activity bonds with respect to which the failure occurs. This penalty applies whether the issuing authority's private activity bond limit is determined under the formula provided under section 103(n) (2) and (3) or a different formula provided under section 103(n)(6). The penalty is imposed on the issuing authority that failed to comply with the requirements of section 631(a)(3) or, if in the year in which the penalty is imposed the issuing authority does not have a sufficient private activity bond limit to absorb the entire penalty, on the general purpose governmental unit treated as having jurisdiction over the same geographical area as the issuing authority. For purposes of this A-17, the general purpose governmental unit's private activity bond limit includes the private activity bond limit of each issuing authority treated as having preliminarily approved the project under A-16 of this § 1.103(n)-3T. Thus, for example, if a governmental unit failed to comply with the requirements of section 631(a)(3) of the Act with respect to a $5 million issue to be issued in 1985, and that governmental unit is assigned $15 million of the State ceiling for 1986 pursuant to a formula provided under section 103(n)(6), that governmental unit has a private activity bond limit of $10 million for 1986. Similarly, where a project that was preliminarily approved by an issuing authority that is not a governmental unit qualifies for $10 million of priority under section 631(a)(3) of the Act is not allocated a total of $10 million by the governmental unit on behalf of which the issuing authority is empowered to issue private activity bonds, the issuing authority's private activity bond limit, if any, for the year following this failure is reduced by $10 million; if the issuing authority's private activity bond limit for the year following the failure is less than $10 million, the private activity bond limit of the governmental unit on behalf of which the private activity bonds would have been issued had the failure not occurred (including if necessary, on a proportionate basis, the private activity bond limit purported to have been assigned to each of the other constituted authorities empowered to issue private activity bonds on behalf of the governmental unit and each special purpose governmental unit deriving all or part of its sovereign powers from the governmental unit) is reduced by the difference between $10 million and the reduction made in the issuing authority's private activity bond limit with respect to such failure.

Q-18: Will a penalty be assessed for failure to allocate private activity bond limit to all projects that meet the requirements section 631(a)(3) if the amount of obligations required by all such projects preliminarily approved by (or treated as having been preliminarily approved by) an issuing authority exceeds the private activity bond limit of such issuing authority?

A-18: No penalty will be assessed if priority is given to those eligible projects for which substantial expenditures were incurred before October 19, 1983. An issuer may define the term “substantial expenditures” in any reasonable manner based on the relevant facts and circumstances and its private activity bond limit.

*Examples.* The following examples illustrate the provisions of A-16 through A-18:

Example 1.On October 1, 1983, County S approved an inducement resolution for the issuance of up to $30 million of industrial development bonds to provide a pollution control facility described in section 103(b)(4)(F) for Corporation R. On October 5, 1983, R contracted with Corporation Q to begin construction of the pollution control facility immediately, and construction began on October 10, 1983. Not later than August 17, 1984, Corporation R notified County S that it intended to seek priority under section 631(a)(3) of the Tax Reform Act of 1984. In addition, prior to December 31, 1984, Corporation R notified County S that it expected the County to issue $25 million of industrial development bonds for its project during calendar year 1985. Under section 103(n)(3), County S has a private activity bond limit of $50 million for calendar year 1985, and neither the Governor nor the legislature of the State has provided a different allocation formula under section 103(n)(6). There are no other projects approved by County S that have rights under section 631(a)(3). On March 1, 1985, County S issues $25 million of industrial development bonds for the pollution control facility for Corporation R. If County S allocates less than $25 million of its private activity bond limit to that project, its private activity bond limit for 1986 will be reduced by the difference between $25 million and the amount County S actually allocates to the project.Example 2.The facts are the same as in Example (1) except that during 1984 Corporation R fails to notify County S of the year in which it expects the obligations to be issued. Upon such failure the pollution control facility no longer qualifies for priority under section 631(a)(3), and County S will not be penalized if it does not not allocate any of its private activity bond limit for 1985, or any future year, to that project.Example 3.The facts are the same as in Example (1) except that under section 103(n)(3) County S has a private activity bond limit of $10 million for 1985. County S will not be penalized if it allocates $10 million of its private activity bond limit to the project.Example 4.The facts are the same as in Example (3) except that on December 31, 1984, the Governor of the State provides a different allocation from that provided under section 103(n) (2) and (3). (The State has not enacted a statute specifically providing that section 631(a)(3) does not apply.) The different allocation provides that the entire State ceiling is allocated to the State and that the State will allocate the State ceiling to issuing authorities for specific projects on a first-come, first-served basis. Corporation R qualifies for the special rights granted by section 631(a)(3) of the Tax Reform Act to the extent of County S's private activity bond limit as determined under section 103(n)(3), *i.e.,* $10 million. If the State fails to assign to County S $10 million of the State ceiling or if County S, after receiving such assignment, fails to allocate $10 million of private activity bond limit to the project, County S's private activity bond limit (if any) for 1986 will be reduced by the difference between $10 million and the amount of private activity bond limit allocated to the project.Example 5.The facts are the same as in Example (1) except that Corporation R notifies County S that it only requires $15 million for the pollution control facility, County S only issues $15 million of private activity bonds for the pollution control facility, and County S only allocates $15 million of its private activity bond limit to such obligations. County S will not be penalized for not allocating more than $15 million of its private activity bond limit to Corporation R even though the original inducement resolution provided for up to $25 million.(Secs. 103(n) and 7805 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 (98 Stat. 916, 26 U.S.C.103(n); 68A Stat. 917, 26 U.S.C. 7805))[T.D. 7981, 49 FR 39320, Oct. 5, 1984]