cfr/title-22-Foreign-Relations/chapter-III-Peace-Corps/part-305-Eligibility-Standards-Peace-Corps-Volunteer-Service/section-305.1.md, before:

##### § 305.1 Purpose and general guideline. #####

This subpart states the requirements for eligibility for Peace Corps Volunteer service and the factors considered in the assessment and selection of eligible applicants for training and service. In selecting individuals for Peace Corps Volunteer service under this subpart, as required by section 5(a) of the Peace Corps Act, as amended, “no political test shall be required to be taken into consideration, nor shall there be any discrimination against any person on account of race, sex, creed, or color.” Further, in accordance with section 417(c)(1) of the Domestic Volunteer Service Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. 5057 (c)(1)) the nondiscrimination policies and authorities set forth in section 717 of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000e-16), title V of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 791 *et seq.*) and the Age Discrimination Act of 1975 (42 U.S.C. 6101 *et seq.*), are also applicable to the selection, placement, service and termination of Peace Corps Volunteers.

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2017-01-05 issue
Title: 10: Energy - Sections changed: 16
Title: 22: Foreign Relations - Sections changed: 19
Title: 32: National Defense - Sections changed: 19
Title: 40: Protection of Environment - Sections changed: 20

cfr/title-22-Foreign-Relations/chapter-III-Peace-Corps/part-305-Eligibility-Standards-Peace-Corps-Volunteer-Service/section-305.1.md, after:

##### § 305.1 Purpose and general guidelines. #####

This part states the requirements for eligibility for Peace Corps Volunteer service and the factors considered in the assessment and selection of eligible applicants for Peace Corps Volunteer service.

(a) *Definitions.* For purposes of this part:

(1) *Applicant* means an individual for enrollment as a Volunteer, who has completed and submitted the Peace Corps Volunteer application form.

(2) *Trainee* means an individual for enrollment as a Volunteer during any period of training occurring prior to such enrollment.

(3) *Volunteer* means an individual who has taken the prescribed oath and enrolled for service in the Peace Corps.

(4) *Enrollment* means the act by which an individual becomes a Volunteer upon successful completion of training and taking the prescribed oath of office pursuant to Section 5 of the Peace Corps Act, 22 U.S.C. 2504.

(5) *Dependent* means an individual for whom an applicant or Volunteer has a legal or familial obligation to provide financial support.

(6) *Family member* means any individual related by blood or affinity whose close association with the applicant or Volunteer is the equivalent of a family relationship.

(b) *Selection.* Invitations to serve in the Peace Corps are the result of a highly competitive application process. Many more individuals apply for Peace Corps Volunteer service than can be accepted. Because the Peace Corps cannot accept all eligible and qualified applicants who wish to serve, it evaluates applicants to select the best qualified among eligible applicants. The Peace Corps determines Applicants' eligibility, and assesses their relative skills, qualifications, and personal attributes, such as motivation, aptitude, fitness for service, emotional maturity, adaptability, productive competence, and ability to serve effectively as a Volunteer in a foreign country and culture.

(c) *Authority.* Under section 5(a) of the Peace Corps Act, 22 U.S.C. 2504(a), the President may enroll in the Peace Corps for service abroad qualified citizens and nationals of the United States. The terms and conditions of the enrollment of Volunteers are exclusively those set forth in the Peace Corps Act and those consistent therewith which the President may prescribe. The President has delegated his authority under section 5(a) of the Peace Corps Act to the Director of the Peace Corps pursuant to Executive Order 12137 (May 16, 1979), as amended.

(d) *Non-discrimination.* The Peace Corps does not discriminate against any person on account of race, color, religion, sex (including but not limited to gender identity and gender expression), national origin, age (40 and over), disability, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, pregnancy, marital status, parental status, political affiliation, union membership, genetic information, or history of participation in the EEO process, any grievance procedure or any authorized complaint procedure. Anyone who feels he or she has been discriminated against should contact the Office of Civil Rights and Diversity, 202.692.2139, *ocrd@peacecorps.gov,* Peace Corps, 1111 20th Street NW., Washington, DC 20526.

(e) *Failure to disclose requested information.* In order for the Peace Corps to be able to make appropriate selection and placement decisions, it is critical that Applicants provide complete and accurate information throughout the application process, including information provided for a mandatory background investigation. The Peace Corps may disqualify an Applicant or separate a Volunteer or Trainee from Peace Corps service at any time if the Peace Corps determines that the Applicant, Volunteer, or Trainee provided materially false, misleading, inaccurate or incomplete information during the Peace Corps application process.
