cfr/title-16-Commercial-Practices/chapter-II-Consumer-Product-Safety-Commission/subchapter-B-Consumer-Product-Safety-Act-Regulations/part-1225-Safety-Standard-HandHeld-Infant-Carriers/section-1225.2.md, before:

##### § 1225.2 Requirements for hand-held infant carriers. #####

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, each hand-held infant carrier must comply with all applicable provisions of ASTM F 2050-13a, Standard Consumer Safety Specification for Hand-Held Infant Carriers, approved on September 1, 2013. The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You may obtain a copy from ASTM International, 100 Bar Harbor Drive, P.O. Box 0700, West Conshohocken, PA 19428; *http://www.astm.org.* You may inspect a copy at the Office of the Secretary, U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, Room 820, 4330 East West Highway, Bethesda, MD 20814, telephone 301-504-7923, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal\_register/code\_of\_federal\_regulations/ibr\_locations.html.*

(b) Instead of complying with section 3.1.3 of ASTM F2050-13a, comply with the following:

(1) 3.1.3 *hand-held infant carrier, n* - a freestanding, rigid- or semirigid-sided product intended to carry an occupant whose torso is completely supported by the product to facilitate transportation by a caregiver by means of hand-holds or handles.

(2) [Reserved]

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2020-01-02 issue
Title: 12: Banks and Banking - Sections changed: 2
Title: 16: Commercial Practices - Sections changed: 3
Title: 26: Internal Revenue - Sections changed: 12
Title: 42: Public Health - Sections changed: 1
Title: 49: Transportation - Sections changed: 2

cfr/title-16-Commercial-Practices/chapter-II-Consumer-Product-Safety-Commission/subchapter-B-Consumer-Product-Safety-Act-Regulations/part-1225-Safety-Standard-HandHeld-Infant-Carriers/section-1225.2.md, after:

##### § 1225.2 Requirements for hand-held infant carriers. #####

Each hand-held infant carrier must comply with all applicable provisions of ASTM F2050-19, *Standard Consumer Safety Specification for Hand-Held Infant Carriers,* approved on December 15, 2019. The Director of the Federal Register approves the incorporation by reference listed in this section in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You may obtain a copy of this ASTM standard from ASTM International, 100 Barr Harbor Drive, P.O. Box C700, West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959 USA; phone: 610-832-9585; *www.astm.org.* A read-only copy of the standard is available for viewing on the ASTM website at *https://www.astm.org/READINGLIBRARY/.* You may inspect a copy at the Division of the Secretariat, U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, Room 820, 4330 East-West Highway, Bethesda, MD 20814, telephone 301-504-7479, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, email *fedreg.legal@nara.gov,* or go to: *www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.*

[85 FR 30608, May 20, 2020]
