cfr/title-22-Foreign-Relations/chapter-I-Department-State/subchapter-M-International-Traffic-Arms-Regulations/part-126-General-Policies-Provisions/section-126.4.md, before:

##### § 126.4 Shipments by or for United States Government agencies. #####

(a) A license is not required for the temporary import, or temporary export, of any defense article, including technical data or the performance of a defense service, by or for any agency of the U.S. Government for official use by such an agency, or for carrying out any foreign assistance, cooperative project or sales program authorized by law and subject to control by the President by other means. This exemption applies only when all aspects of a transaction (export, carriage, and delivery abroad) are affected by a United States Government agency or when the export is covered by a United States Government Bill of Lading. This exemption, however, does not apply when a U.S. Government agency acts as a transmittal agent on behalf of a private individual or firm, either as a convenience or in satisfaction of security requirements. The approval of the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls must be obtained before defense articles previously exported pursuant to this exemption are permanently transferred (e.g., property disposal of surplus defense articles overseas) unless the transfer is pursuant to a grant, sale, lease, loan or cooperative project under the Arms Export Control Act or a sale, lease or loan under the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended, or the defense articles have been rendered useless for military purposes beyond the possibility of restoration.

Note:

*Special definition.* For purposes of this section, defense articles exported abroad for incorporation into a foreign launch vehicle or for use on a foreign launch vehicle or satellite that is to be launched from a foreign country shall be considered a permanent export.

(b) This section does not authorize any department or agency of the U.S. Government to make any export which is otherwise prohibited by virtue of other administrative provisions or by any statute.

(c) A license is not required for the temporary import, or temporary or permanent export, of any classified or unclassified defense articles, including technical data or the performance of a defense service, for end-use by a U.S. Government Agency in a foreign country under the following circumstances:

(1) The export or temporary import is pursuant to a contract with, or written direction by, an agency of the U.S. Government; and

(2) The end-user in the foreign country is a U.S. Government agency or facility, and the defense articles or technical data will not be transferred to any foreign person; and

(3) The urgency of the U.S. Government requirement is such that the appropriate export license or U.S. Government Bill of Lading could not have been obtained in a timely manner.

(d) An Electronic Export Information (EEI) filing, required under § 123.22 of this subchapter, and a written statement by the exporter certifying that these requirements have been met must be presented at the time of export to the appropriate Port Directors of U.S. Customs and Border Protection or Department of Defense transmittal authority. A copy of the EEI filing and the written certification statement shall be provided to the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls immediately following the export.

[58 FR 39312, July 22, 1993, as amended at 70 FR 50964, Aug. 29, 2005; 77 FR 16600, Mar. 21, 2012]

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2017-01-05 issue
Title: 10: Energy - Sections changed: 16
Title: 22: Foreign Relations - Sections changed: 19
Title: 32: National Defense - Sections changed: 19
Title: 40: Protection of Environment - Sections changed: 20

cfr/title-22-Foreign-Relations/chapter-I-Department-State/subchapter-M-International-Traffic-Arms-Regulations/part-126-General-Policies-Provisions/section-126.4.md, after:

##### § 126.4 Shipments by or for United States Government agencies. #####

(a) A license is not required for the temporary import, or temporary export, of any defense article, including technical data or the performance of a defense service, by or for any agency of the U.S. Government for official use by such an agency, or for carrying out any foreign assistance, cooperative project or sales program authorized by law and subject to control by the President by other means. This exemption applies only when all aspects of a transaction (export, carriage, and delivery abroad) are affected by a United States Government agency or when the export is covered by a United States Government Bill of Lading. This exemption, however, does not apply when a U.S. Government agency acts as a transmittal agent on behalf of a private individual or firm, either as a convenience or in satisfaction of security requirements. The approval of the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls must be obtained before defense articles previously exported pursuant to this exemption are permanently transferred (e.g., property disposal of surplus defense articles overseas) unless the transfer is pursuant to a grant, sale, lease, loan or cooperative project under the Arms Export Control Act or a sale, lease or loan under the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended, or the defense articles have been rendered useless for military purposes beyond the possibility of restoration.

Note:

*Special definition.* For purposes of this section, defense articles exported abroad for incorporation into a foreign launch vehicle or for use on a foreign launch vehicle or satellite that is to be launched from a foreign country shall be considered a permanent export.

(b) This section does not authorize any department or agency of the U.S. Government to make any export which is otherwise prohibited by virtue of other administrative provisions or by any statute.

(c) A license is not required for the temporary import, or temporary or permanent export, of any classified or unclassified defense articles, including technical data or the performance of a defense service, for end-use by a U.S. Government Agency in a foreign country under the following circumstances:

(1) The export or temporary import is pursuant to a contract with, or written direction by, an agency of the U.S. Government; and

(2) The end-user in the foreign country is a U.S. Government agency or facility, and the defense articles or technical data will not be transferred to any foreign person; and

(3) The urgency of the U.S. Government requirement is such that the appropriate export license or U.S. Government Bill of Lading could not have been obtained in a timely manner.

(d) An Electronic Export Information (EEI) filing, and a statement by the exporter that these requirements have been met, must be submitted to U.S. Customs and Border Protection using its electronic system(s) at the time of export, unless electronic submission of such information is unavailable, in which case U.S. Customs and Border Protection or the Department of Defense transmittal authority will issue instructions.

[58 FR 39312, July 22, 1993, as amended at 70 FR 50964, Aug. 29, 2005; 77 FR 16600, Mar. 21, 2012; 82 FR 19, Jan. 3, 2017]
