##### ยง 154.47 General. #####

(a) The issuance of a personnel security clearance (as well as the function of determining that an individual is eligible for access to Special Access program information, or is suitable for assignment to sensitive duties or such other duties that require a trustworthiness determination) is a function distinct from that involving the granting of access to classified information. Clearance determinations are made on the merits of the individual case with respect to the subject's suitability for security clearance. Access determinations are made solely on the basis of the individual's need for access to classified information in order to perform official duties. Except for suspension of access pending final adjudication of a personnel security clearance, access may not be finally denied for cause without applying the provisions of ยง 154.56(b).

(b) Only the authorities designated in paragraph A, appendix E are authorized to grant, deny or revoke personnel security clearances or Special Access authorizations (other than SCI). Any commander or head of an organization may suspend access for cause when there exists information raising a serious question as to the individual's ability or intent to protect classified information, provided that the procedures set forth in ยง 154.55(b) of this part are complied.

(c) All commanders and heads of DoD organizations have the responsibility for determining those position functions in their jurisdiction that require access to classified information and the authority to grant access to incumbents of such positions who have been cleared under the provisions of this part.