##### ยง 350.101 What is the Motor Carrier Safety Assistance Program (MCSAP) and High Priority Program? #####

(a) *What is the MCSAP?* The MCSAP is a Federal grant program that provides financial assistance to States to reduce the number and severity of accidents and hazardous materials incidents involving commercial motor vehicles (CMVs). The goal of the MCSAP is to reduce CMV-involved accidents, fatalities, and injuries through consistent, uniform, and effective CMV safety programs. Investing grant monies in appropriate safety programs will increase the likelihood that safety defects, driver deficiencies, and unsafe motor carrier practices will be detected and corrected before they become contributing factors to accidents. The MCSAP also sets forth the conditions for participation by States and local jurisdictions and promotes the adoption and uniform enforcement of State safety rules, regulations, and standards compatible with the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations (FMCSRs) and Federal Hazardous Material Regulations (HMRs) for both interstate and intrastate motor carriers and drivers.

(b) *What is the High Priority Program?* The High Priority Program is a discretionary financial assistance program that supports, enriches, and augments State CMV safety programs through partnerships with States, local governments, federally recognized Indian tribes, other political jurisdictions, and other persons to carry out high priority activities and projects that augment motor carrier safety activities and, projects planned in accordance with the MCSAP. It also promotes the deployment of innovative technology for the CMV information systems and networks.

[81 FR 71010, Oct. 14, 2016]