cfr/title-46-Shipping/chapter-III-Coast-Guard-Great-Lakes-Pilotage-Department-Homeland-Security/part-401-Great-Lakes-Pilotage-Regulations/subpart-F-Procedure-Governing-Revocation-Suspension-Registration-Refusal-To-Renew-Registration/section-401.650.md, before:

##### § 401.650 Review of Administrative Law Judge's initial decision. #####

Link to an amendment published at 89 FR 76353, Sept. 17, 2024.

(a) The Commandant may, on his own motion, or on the basis of a petition filed by the U.S. Registered Pilot in the proceedings or the Commandant, review any initial decision of the Administrative Law Judge by entering a written order stating that he elects to review the action of the Administrative Law Judge. Copies of all orders for review, replies, and decisions shall be served on all parties.

(b) A petition for review shall be in writing and shall state the grounds upon which the petition relies. A petition for review shall be limited to the record before the Administrative Law Judge. Five (5) copies of such a petition for review, together with proof of service on all parties, shall be filed with the Commandant (CL) within fifteen (15) days after the date of service of the initial decision of the Administrative Law Judge. Parties may file replies, in writing, to a petition for review, with proof of service on other parties in the same manner and number of copies as is provided for filing of a petition for review and within ten (10) days after the date the petition for review is timely filed. A reply shall be limited to the record before the Administrative Law Judge and the petition for review.

(c) If a petition for review is filed within the time prescribed, the initial decision of the Administrative Law Judge shall be final fifteen (15) days after expiration of the time prescribed for filing a reply thereto unless the Commandant prior to expiration of the fifteen (15) days after expiration of the time prescribed for filing a reply thereto enters a written order granting the petition for review. If no petition for review is filed within the time prescribed and the Commandant does not elect to review on his own motion, the initial decision of the Administrative Law Judge shall be final twenty (20) days after the date of service of the decision.

(d) If the Commandant reviews the initial decision as provided in this section, he shall issue a written order affirming, amending, overruling, or remanding the initial decision of the Administrative Law Judge within thirty (30) days after the date on which he takes review. There is no other administrative remedy within the Department of Transportation.

(e) When the Commandant has sustained an order of suspension or revocation of a registration, the respondent may appeal to the National Transportation Safety Board under 49 CFR 825.5 within ten (10) days after service of the Commandant decision.

[32 FR 14222, Oct. 13, 1967, as amended by CGD 76-189, 42 FR 31160, June 20, 1977; 61 FR 5721, Feb. 14, 1996. Redesignated at 61 FR 32655, June 25, 1996, and further redesignated and amended by USCG-1998-3976, 63 FR 35139, 35140, June 29, 1998]

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2024-10-17 issue
Title: 15: Commerce and Foreign Trade - Sections changed: 1
Title: 10: Energy - Sections changed: 2
Title: 36: Parks, Forests, and Public Property - Sections changed: 1
Title: 40: Protection of Environment - Sections changed: 2
Title: 46: Shipping - Sections changed: 41
Title: 47: Telecommunication - Sections changed: 1
Title: 49: Transportation - Sections changed: 2
Title: 50: Wildlife and Fisheries - Sections changed: 3

cfr/title-46-Shipping/chapter-III-Coast-Guard-Great-Lakes-Pilotage-Department-Homeland-Security/part-401-Great-Lakes-Pilotage-Regulations/subpart-F-Procedure-Governing-Revocation-Suspension-Registration-Refusal-To-Renew-Registration/section-401.650.md, after:

##### § 401.650 Review of Administrative Law Judge's initial decision. #####

(a) The Commandant may, on their own motion, or on the basis of a petition filed by the United States Registered Pilot, Apprentice Pilot, Apprentice Pilot with Limited Registration, or Temporary Registration Pilot in the proceedings of the Commandant, review any initial decision of the Administrative Law Judge by entering a written order stating that they elect to review the action of the Administrative Law Judge. Copies of all orders for review, replies, and decisions must be served on all parties.

(b) A petition for review must be in writing and must state the grounds upon which the petition relies. A petition for review must be limited to the record before the Administrative Law Judge. A hard copy or electronic version of such a petition for review, together with proof of service on all parties, must be filed with the Commandant (CL) within fifteen (15) days after the date of service of the initial decision of the Administrative Law Judge. Parties may file replies, in writing, to a petition for review, with proof of service on other parties in the same manner and number of copies as is provided for filing of a petition for review and within ten (10) days after the date the petition for review is timely filed. A reply must be limited to the record before the Administrative Law Judge and the petition for review.

(c) The initial decision of an Administrative Law Judge will be made final;

(1) Fifteen (15) days after the timely filing of a petition to review unless a reply is filed thereto, or the Commandant enters a written order granting the petition for review; or

(2) Twenty (20) days after the date of service of the Administrative Law Judge's decision if no petition for review is filed and the Commandant does not elect to review on his or her own motion.

(d) If the Commandant reviews the initial decision as provided in this section, they must issue a written order affirming, amending, overruling, or remanding the initial decision of the Administrative Law Judge within thirty (30) days after the date on which they take review. There is no other administrative remedy within the Department of Homeland Security.

(e) When the Commandant has sustained an order of suspension or revocation of a registration, the respondent may appeal to the National Transportation Safety Board under 49 CFR 825.5 within ten (10) days after service of the Commandant decision.

[USCG-2022-0025, 89 FR 76353, Sept. 17, 2024]
