##### ยง 644.61 General. #####

(a) *Purpose.* Sections 644.61 through 644.72 describe the procedures relating to the procurement of title evidence, title clearance, and closings for the acquisition of real estate and interests therein for all land acquisition programs administered by the Chief of Engineers. Exceptions in connection with the acquisition of properties under the Homeowners Assistance Program are set forth in subpart E.

(b) *Applicability.* These sections are applicable to all Division and District Engineers having real estate responsibility.

(c) *Guidelines.* (1) The satisfactory progress of land acquisition programs necessitates the prompt procurement of title evidence and prompt title clearance. One of the following types of title evidence should be obtained, after considering the cost of the several types and other factors mentioned below. To effect these objectives, careful planning is essential, including a determination of the most acceptable and available type of title evidence and the source from which such title evidence may be procured. The Chief of Engineers is responsible for procuring all title evidence, including title evidence needed for lands which are acquired by condemnation proceedings. The early procurement and examination of the title evidence and title clearance will expedite payment to landowners from whom offers are obtained or against whom condemnation proceedings are filed.

(2) Insured certificates of title or policies of title insurance shall be obtained wherever possible. This is on the theory that the Government is buying title searching service as well as the title evidence itself and is avoiding the time and cost of examining abstracts of title, generally voluminous in nature.

(3) Where it is not possible to obtain certificates of title or title insurance, abstracts of title may be obtained, as a last resort.

(4) As used in these sections, an abstract of title is a synopsis or digest of all instruments of record affecting the title to a specific parcel of land. It neither guarantees nor insures the title. A certificate of title is a contract whereby a title company certifies that title to a specific parcel of land is good and unencumbered of record in a named person excepting only such defects and encumbrances as are shown therein. The liability of the company is limited to an amount specified in the certificate. A title insurance policy is a contract which insures that the owner or mortgagee will not suffer any loss or damage by reason of defects in the title to the property, or liens or encumbrances thereon existing at the date of the policy, except those defects, liens, or encumbrances which the policy specifically excepts. Liability thereunder is not limited to matters of record but extends to matters beyond the record.

(5) The Directory of the American Land Title Association may be obtained upon request to the Association at 1828 L Street, NW., Washington, DC 20036, or to any major title insurance company. This Directory lists, by States, the abstract and title companies which provide title insurance. These companies are acceptable to the Attorney General. Requests for furnishing title certificates or title insurance should be made to the major title insurance companies in addition to local abstractors and title companies.

(6) From past experience, it is considered that the procurement of certificates of title or title insurance is more economical than abstracts of title and the use of these types of title evidence expedites payment to landowners. In the majority of the States either certificates of title or title insurance are obtainable and the premium for issuance of such certificates or policies is based on a schedule of fees approved by the State Insurance Commission or some similar State agency. The premium fixed by such schedules, in most cases, includes the charge for title examination (preliminary certificate of title or preliminary binders) and the charge for insurance (final certificates of title or title guarantee policy) and any variance from the prescribed fees is considered a violation of the Sate law or regulation. Most State Insurance Commissions have recognized and approved the forms of certificates of title and title insurance policies prescribed by the Attorney General and have authorized their use in lieu of owners' policies. Division and District Engineers should familiarize themselves with the State title insurance laws and regulations. If prices quoted by all possible sources seem exorbitant, the matter should be referred to HQDA (DAEN-REA-P) WASH DC 20314 for action.