##### ยง 26.80 Deferred payment of tax - release of spirits. #####

(a) *Action by proprietor.* Where the proprietor has furnished bond on TTB Form 5110.50, and payment of the tax is to be deferred, he shall execute an agreement on TTB Form 5110.51 to pay the amount of tax which has been computed and entered on the form. He shall also certify, under the penalties of perjury, that he is not in default of any payment of tax chargeable against his bond, and that his bond is in the maximum penal sum, or that it is sufficient to cover the amount of tax on the distilled spirits described on the form in addition to all other amounts chargeable agains this bond. The proprietor shall deliver all copies of TTB Form 5110.51 and any package gauge record as provided in ยง 26.164a to the revenue agent.

(b) *Action by revenue agent.* On receipt of TTB Form 5110.51 and any package gauge record, the revenue agent shall verify the computation of the tax entered on the TTB Form 5110.51, and if the proprietor has on file a good and sufficient bond, TTB Form 5110.50, so indicate on TTB Form 5110.51. The revenue agent shall then execute his report of release on the TTB Form 5110.51 and release the spirits for shipment to the United States. He shall distribute TTB Form 5110.51 and any package gauge record according to the instructions of TTB Form 5110.51. Where the revenue agent finds that the proprietor does not have good and sufficient bond coverage, or where the revenue agent has received information that the proprietor is in default of payment of any taxes previously charged to his bond, he shall return all copies of TTB Form 5110.51 and any package gauge record to the proprietor, giving his reasons for such action.

(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1512-0250)[T.D. ATF-198, 50 FR 8549, Mar. 1, 1985. Redesignated and amended by T.D. ATF-459, 66 FR 38550, 38551, July 25, 2001]