##### § 2552.12 Definitions. #####

Link to an amendment published at 83 FR 64649, Dec. 17, 2018.

(a) *Act.* The Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973, as amended, Pub. L. 93-113, Oct. 1, 1973, 87 Stat. 396, 42 U.S.C. 4950 *et seq.*

(b) *Adequate staffing level.* The number of project staff or full-time equivalent needed by a sponsor to manage NSSC project operations considering such factors as: number of budgeted volunteers/Volunteer Service Years (VSYs), number of volunteer stations, and the size of the service area.

(c) *Annual income.* Total cash and in-kind receipts from all sources over the preceding 12 months including: the applicant or enrollee's income and, the applicant or enrollee's spouse's income, if the spouse lives in the same residence. The value of shelter, food, and clothing, shall be counted if provided at no cost by persons related to the applicant/enrollee, or spouse.

(d) *Chief Executive Officer.* The Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation appointed under the National and Community Service Act of 1990, as amended, (NCSA), 42 U.S.C. 12501 *et seq.*

(e) *Child.* Any individual who is less than 21 years of age.

(f) *Children having exceptional needs.* Children who are developmentally disabled, such as those who are autistic, have cerebral palsy or epilepsy, are visually impaired, speech impaired, hearing impaired, orthopedically impaired, are emotionally disturbed or have a language disorder, specific learning disability, have multiple disabilities, other significant health impairment or have literacy needs. Existence of a child's exceptional need shall be verified by an appropriate professional, such as a physician, psychiatrist, psychologist, registered nurse or licensed practical nurse, speech therapist or educator before a Foster Grandparent is assigned to the child.

(g) *Children with special needs.* Children who are abused or neglected; in need of foster care; adjudicated youth; homeless youths; teen-age parents; and children in need of protective intervention in their homes. Existence of a child's special need shall be verified by an appropriate professional before a Foster Grandparent is assigned to the child.

(h) *Corporation.* The Corporation for National and Community Service established under the NCSA. The Corporation is also sometimes referred to as CNCS.

(i) *Cost reimbursements.* Reimbursements provided to volunteers such as stipends to cover incidental costs, meals, and transportation, to enable them to serve without cost to themselves. Also included are the costs of annual physical examinations, volunteer insurance and recognition which are budgeted as Volunteer Expenses.

(j) *In-home.* The non-institutional assignment of a Foster Grandparent in a private residence or a foster home.

(k) *Letter of Agreement.* A written agreement between a volunteer station, the sponsor and the parent or persons legally responsible for the child served by the Foster Grandparent. It authorizes the assignment of a Foster Grandparent in the child's home, defines the Foster Grandparent's activities and delineates specific arrangements for supervision.

(l) *Memorandum of Understanding.* A written statement prepared and signed by the Foster Grandparent project sponsor and the volunteer station that identifies project requirements, working relationships and mutual responsibilities.

(m) *National Senior Service Corps (NSSC).* The collective name for the Foster Grandparent Program (FGP), the Retired and Senior Volunteer Program (RSVP), the Senior Companion Program (SCP), and Demonstration Programs established under Title II Parts A, B, C, and E, of the Act. NSSC is also referred to as the “Senior Corps”.

(n) *Non-Corporation support (required).* The percentage share of non-Federal cash and in-kind contributions, required to be raised by the sponsor in support of the grant.

(o) *Non-Corporation support (excess).* The amount of non-Federal cash and in-kind contributions generated by a sponsor in excess of the required percentage.

(p) *Parent.* A natural parent or a person acting in place of a natural parent, such as a guardian, a child's natural grandparent, or a step-parent with whom the child lives. The term also includes otherwise unrelated individuals who are legally responsible for a child's welfare.

(q) *Project.* The locally planned and implemented Foster Grandparent Program activity or set of activities as agreed upon between a sponsor and the Corporation.

(r) *Qualified individual with a disability.* An individual with a disability (as defined in the Rehabilitation Act, 29 U.S.C. 705 (20)) who, with or without reasonable accommodation, can perform the essential functions of a volunteer position that such individual holds or desires. If a sponsor has prepared a written description before advertising or interviewing applicants for the position, the written description may be considered evidence of the essential functions of the volunteer position.

(s) *Service area.* The geographically defined area in which Foster Grandparents are recruited, enrolled, and placed on assignments.

(t) *Service schedule.* A written delineation of the days and times a Foster Grandparent serves each week.

(u) *Sponsor.* A public agency or private non-profit organization, either secular or faith-based, that is responsible for the operation of a Foster Grandparent project.

(v) *Stipend.* A payment to Foster Grandparents to enable them to serve without cost to themselves. The amount of the stipend is determined by the Corporation and is payable in regular installments. The minimum amount of the stipend is set by law and shall be adjusted by the CEO from time to time.

(w) *Trust Act.* The National and Community Service Trust Act of 1993, Pub. L. 103-82, Sept. 21, 1993, 107 Stat. 785.

(x) *United States and States.* Each of the several States, the District of Columbia, the U.S. Virgin Islands, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam and American Samoa, and Trust Territories of the Pacific Islands.

(y) *Volunteer assignment plan.* A written description of a Foster Grandparent's assignment with a child. The plan identifies specific outcomes for the child served and the activities of the Foster Grandparent.

(z) *Volunteer station.* A public agency, secular or faith-based private non-profit organization, or proprietary health care organization that accepts the responsibility for assignment and supervision of Foster Grandparents in health, education, social service or related settings such as multi-purpose centers, home health care agencies, or similar establishments. Each volunteer station must be licensed or otherwise certified, when required, by the appropriate state or local government. Private homes are not volunteer stations.

[64 FR 14126, Mar. 24, 1999, as amended at 69 FR 60095, Oct. 7, 2004]