##### § 1.417(e)-1 Restrictions and valuations of distributions from plans subject to sections 401(a)(11) and 417. #####

(a) *Scope*—(1) *In general.* A plan does not satisfy the requirements of sections 401(a)(11) and 417 unless it satisfies the consent requirements, the determination of present value requirements and the other requirements set forth in this section. See section 401(a)(11) and § 1.401(a)-20 for other rules regarding the survivor annuity requirements.

(2) *Additional requirements.* See § 1.411(a)-11 for other rules applicable to the consent requirements.

(3) *Accrued benefit.* The definition of “accrued benefit” in § 1.411(a)-11 applies when that term is used in this section.

(b) *Consent, etc. requirements*—(1) *General rule.* Generally plans may not commence the distribution of any portion of a participant's accrued benefit in any form unless the applicable consent requirements are satisfied. No consent of the participant or spouse is needed for distribution of a QJSA or QPSA after the benefit is no longer immediately distributable (after the participant attains (or would have attained if not dead) the later of normal retirement age (as defined in section 411(a)(8)) or age 62). No consent of the spouse is needed for distribution of a QJSA at any time. After the participant's death, a benefit may be paid to a nonspouse beneficiary without the beneficiary's consent. A distribution cannot be made at any time in a form other than a QJSA unless such QJSA has been waived by the participant and such waiver has been consented to by the spouse. A QJSA is an annuity that commences immediately. Thus, for example, a plan may not offer a participant separating from service at age 45 a choice only between a single sum distribution at separation of service and a joint and survivor annuity that satisfies all the requirements of a QJSA except that it commences at normal retirement age rather than immediately. To satisfy this section, the plan must also offer a QJSA (*i.e.,* an annuity that satisfies all the requirements for a QJSA including the requirement that it commences immediately).

(2) *Consent.* (i) Written consent of the participant and, if the participant is married at the annuity starting date and the benefit is to be paid in a form other than a QJSA, the participant's spouse (or, if either the participant or the spouse has died, the survivor) is required before the commencement of the distribution of any part of an accrued benefit if the present value of the nonforfeitable benefit is greater than the cash-out limit in effect under § 1.411(a)-11(c)(3)(ii). No consent is valid unless the participant has received a general description of the material features, and an explanation of the relative values of, the optional forms of benefit available under the plan in a manner which would satisfy the notice requirements of section 417(a)(3). *See* § 1.417(a)(3)-1. No consent is required before the annuity starting date if the present value of the nonforfeitable benefit is not more than the cash-out limit in effect under § 1.411(a)-11(c)(3)(ii). After the annuity starting date, consent is required for the immediate distribution of the present value of the accrued benefit being distributed in any form, including a qualified joint and survivor annuity or a qualified preretirement survivor annuity, regardless of the amount of such present value.

(ii) In determining the present value of any nonforfeitable accrued benefit, a defined benefit plan is limited by the interest rate restriction as set forth in paragraph (d) of this section.

(iii) Paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section applies to distributions made on or after October 17, 2000. For distributions prior to October 17, 2000, § 1.417(e)-1(b)(2)(i) in effect prior to October 17, 2000 (as contained in 26 CFR part 1 revised as of April 1, 2000) applies.

(3) *Time of consent.* (i) Written consent of the participant and the participant's spouse to the distribution must be made not more than 90 days before the annuity starting date, and, except as otherwise provided in paragraphs (b)(3)(iii) and (b)(3)(iv) of this section, no later than the annuity starting date.

(ii) A plan must provide participants with the written explanation of the QJSA required by section 417(a)(3) no less than 30 days and no more than 90 days before the annuity starting date, except as provided in paragraph (b)(3)(iv) of this section regarding retroactive annuity starting dates. However, if the participant, after having received the written explanation of the QJSA, affirmatively elects a form of distribution and the spouse consents to that form of distribution (if necessary), a plan will not fail to satisfy the requirements of section 417(a) merely because the written explanation was provided to the participant less than 30 days before the annuity starting date, provided that the following conditions are met:

(A) The plan administrator provides information to the participant clearly indicating that (in accordance with the first sentence of this paragraph (b)(3)(ii)) the participant has a right to at least 30 days to consider whether to waive the QJSA and consent to a form of distribution other than a QJSA.

(B) The participant is permitted to revoke an affirmative distribution election at least until the annuity starting date, or, if later, at any time prior to the expiration of the 7-day period that begins the day after the explanation of the QJSA is provided to the participant.

(C) The annuity starting date is after the date that the explanation of the QJSA is provided to the participant.

(D) Distribution in accordance with the affirmative election does not commence before the expiration of the 7-day period that begins the day after the explanation of the QJSA is provided to the participant.

(iii) The plan may permit the annuity starting date to be before the date that any affirmative distribution election is made by the participant (and before the date that distribution is permitted to commence under paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(D) of this section), provided that, except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b)(3)(vii) of this section regarding administrative delay, distributions commence not more than 90 days after the explanation of the QJSA is provided.

(iv) *Retroactive annuity starting dates.* (A) Notwithstanding the requirements of paragraphs (b)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section, pursuant to section 417(a)(7), a defined benefit plan is permitted to provide benefits based on a retroactive annuity starting date if the requirements described in paragraph (b)(3)(v) of this section are satisfied. A defined benefit plan is not required to provide for retroactive annuity starting dates. If a plan does provide for a retroactive annuity starting date, it may impose conditions on the availability of a retroactive annuity starting date in addition to those imposed by paragraph (b)(3)(v) of this section, provided that imposition of those additional conditions does not violate any of the rules applicable to qualified plans. For example, a plan that includes a single sum payment as a benefit option may limit the election of a retroactive annuity starting date to those participants who do not elect the single sum payment. A defined contribution plan is not permitted to have a retroactive annuity starting date.

(B) For purposes of this section, a “retroactive annuity starting date” is an annuity starting date affirmatively elected by a participant that occurs on or before the date the written explanation required by section 417(a)(3) is provided to the participant. In order for a plan to treat a participant as having elected a retroactive annuity starting date, future periodic payments with respect to a participant who elects a retroactive annuity starting date must be the same as the future periodic payments, if any, that would have been paid with respect to the participant had payments actually commenced on the retroactive annuity starting date. The participant must receive a make-up payment to reflect any missed payment or payments for the period from the retroactive annuity starting date to the date of the actual make-up payment (with an appropriate adjustment for interest from the date the missed payment or payments would have been made to the date of the actual make-up payment). Thus, the benefit determined as of the retroactive annuity starting date must satisfy the requirements of sections 417(e)(3), if applicable, and section 415 with the applicable interest rate and applicable mortality table determined as of that date. Similarly, a participant is not permitted to elect a retroactive annuity starting date that precedes the date upon which the participant could have otherwise started receiving benefits (e.g., in the case of an ongoing plan, the earlier of the participant's termination of employment or the participant's normal retirement age) under the terms of the plan in effect as of the retroactive annuity starting date. A plan does not fail to treat a participant as having elected a retroactive annuity starting date as described in this paragraph (b)(3)(iv)(B) merely because the distributions are adjusted to the extent necessary to satisfy the requirements of paragraph (b)(3)(v)(B) and (C) of this section relating to sections 415 and 417(e)(3).

(C) If the participant's spouse as of the retroactive annuity starting date would not be the participant's spouse determined as if the date distributions commence was the participant's annuity starting date, consent of that former spouse is not needed to waive the QJSA with respect to the retroactive annuity starting date, unless otherwise provided under a qualified domestic relations order (as defined in section 414(p)).

(D) A distribution payable pursuant to a retroactive annuity starting date election is treated as excepted from the present value requirements of paragraph (d) of this section under paragraph (d)(6) of this section if the distribution form would have been described in paragraph (d)(6) of this section had the distribution actually commenced on the retroactive annuity starting date. Similarly, annuity payments that otherwise satisfy the requirements of a QJSA under section 417(b) will not fail to be treated as a QJSA for purposes of section 415(b)(2)(B) merely because a retroactive annuity starting date is elected and a make-up payment is made. Also, for purposes of section 72(t)(2)(A)(iv), a distribution that would otherwise be one of a series of substantially equal periodic payments will be treated as one of a series of substantially equal periodic payments notwithstanding the distribution of a make-up payment provided for in paragraph (b)(3)(iv)(B) of this section.

(E) The following example illustrates the application of paragraph (b)(3)(iv)(D) of this section:

Example.Under the terms of a defined benefit plan, participant A is entitled to a QJSA with a monthly payment of $1,500 beginning as of his annuity starting date. Due to administrative error, the QJSA explanation is provided to A after the annuity starting date. After receiving the QJSA explanation A elects a retroactive annuity starting date. Pursuant to this election, A begins to receive a monthly payment of $1,500 and also receives a make-up payment of $10,000. Under these circumstances the monthly payments may be treated as a QJSA for purposes of section 415(b)(2)(B). In addition, the monthly payments of $1,500 and the make-up payment of $10,000 may be treated as part of as series of substantially equal periodic payments for purpose of section 72(t)(2)(A)(iv).

(v) *Requirements applicable to retroactive annuity starting dates.* A distribution is permitted to have a retroactive annuity starting date with respect to a participant's benefit only if the following requirements are met:

(A) The participant's spouse (including an alternate payee who is treated as the spouse under a qualified domestic relations order (QDRO), as defined in section 414(p)), determined as if the date distributions commence were the participant's annuity starting date, consents to the distribution in a manner that would satisfy the requirements of section 417(a)(2). The spousal consent requirement of this paragraph (b)(3)(v)(A) is satisfied if such spouse consents to the distribution under paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section. The spousal consent requirement of this paragraph (b)(3)(v)(A) does not apply if the amount of such spouse's survivor annuity payments under the retroactive annuity starting date election is no less than the amount that the survivor payments to such spouse would have been under an optional form of benefit that would satisfy the requirements to be a QJSA under section 417(b) and that has an annuity starting date after the date that the explanation was provided.

(B) The distribution (including appropriate interest adjustments) provided based on the retroactive annuity starting date would satisfy the requirements of section 415 if the date the distribution commences is substituted for the annuity starting date for all purposes, including for purposes of determining the applicable interest rate and the applicable mortality table. However, in the case of a form of benefit that would have been excepted from the present value requirements of paragraph (d) of this section under paragraph (d)(6) of this section if the distribution had actually commenced on the retroactive annuity starting date, the requirement to apply section 415 as of the date distribution commences set forth in this paragraph (b)(3)(v)(B) does not apply if the date distribution commences is twelve months or less from the retroactive annuity starting date.

(C) In the case of a form of benefit that would have been subject to section 417(e)(3) and paragraph (d) of this section if distributions had commenced as of the retroactive annuity starting date, the distribution is no less than the benefit produced by applying the applicable interest rate and the applicable mortality table determined as of the date the distribution commences to the annuity form that corresponds to the annuity form that was used to determine the benefit amount as of the retroactive annuity starting date. Thus, for example, if a distribution paid pursuant to an election of a retroactive annuity starting date is a single-sum distribution that is based on the present value of the straight life annuity payable at normal retirement age, then the amount of the distribution must be no less than the present value of the annuity payable at normal retirement age, determined as of the distribution date using the applicable mortality table and applicable interest rate that apply as of the distribution date. Likewise, if a distribution paid pursuant to an election of a retroactive annuity starting date is a single-sum distribution that is based on the present value of the early retirement annuity payable as of the retroactive annuity starting date, then the amount of the distribution must be no less than the present value of the early retirement annuity payable as of the distribution date, determined as of the distribution date using the applicable mortality table and applicable interest rate that apply as of the distribution date.

(vi) *Timing of notice and consent requirements in the case of retroactive annuity starting dates.* In the case of a retroactive annuity starting date, the date of the first actual payment of benefits based on the retroactive annuity starting date is substituted for the annuity starting date for purposes of satisfying the timing requirements for giving consent and providing an explanation of the QJSA provided in paragraphs (b)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section, except that the substitution does not apply for purposes of paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section. Thus, the written explanation required by section 417(a)(3)(A) must generally be provided no less than 30 days and no more than 90 days before the date of the first payment of benefits and the election to receive the distribution must be made after the written explanation is provided and on or before the date of the first payment. Similarly, the written explanation may also be provided less than 30 days prior to the first payment of benefits if the requirements of paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section would be satisfied if the date of the first payment is substituted for the annuity starting date.

(vii) *Administrative delay.* A plan will not fail to satisfy the 90-day timing requirements of paragraphs (b)(3)(iii) and (vi) of this section merely because, due solely to administrative delay, a distribution commences more than 90 days after the written explanation of the QJSA is provided to the participant.

(viii) The following example illustrates the provisions of this paragraph (b)(3):

Example.Employee E, a married participant in a defined benefit plan who has terminated employment, is provided with the explanation of the QJSA on November 28.

Employee E elects (with spousal consent) on December 2 to waive the QJSA and receive an immediate distribution in the form of a single life annuity. The plan may permit Employee E to receive payments with an annuity starting date of December 1, provided that the first payment is made no earlier than December 6 and the participant does not revoke the election before that date. The plan can make the remaining monthly payments on the first day of each month thereafter in accordance with its regular payment schedule.

(ix) The additional rules of this paragraph (b)(3) concerning the notice and consent requirements of section 417 apply to distributions on or after September 22, 1995. For distributions before September 22, 1995, the additional rules concerning the notice and consent requirements of section 417 in § 1.417(e)-1(b)(3) in effect prior to September 22, 1995 (see § 1.417(e)-1 (b)(3) in 26 CFR Part 1 revised as of April 1, 1995) apply.

(4) *Delegation to Commissioner.* The Commissioner, in revenue rulings, notices, and other guidance published in the Internal Revenue Bulletin, may modify, or provide additional guidance with respect to, the notice and consent requirements of this section. See § 601.601(d)(2)(ii)(*b*) of this chapter.

(c) *Permitted distributions.* A plan may not require that a participant or surviving spouse begin to receive benefits without satisfying paragraph (b) of this section while such benefits are immediately distributable, (see paragraph (b)(1) of this section). Once benefits are no longer immediately distributable, all benefits that the plan requires to begin must be provided in the form of a QJSA and QPSA unless the applicable written explanation, election and consent requirements of section 417 are satisfied.

(d) *Present value requirement*— (1) *General rule*— (i) *Defined benefit plans.* Except as provided in section 411(a)(13) and the regulations thereunder, a defined benefit plan must provide that the present value of any accrued benefit and the amount (subject to sections 411(c)(3) and 415) of any distribution, including a single sum, must not be less than the amount calculated using the applicable interest rate described in paragraph (d)(3) of this section (determined for the month described in paragraph (d)(4) of this section) and the applicable mortality table described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section. The present value of any optional form of benefit cannot be less than the present value of the normal retirement benefit determined in accordance with the preceding sentence. The same rules used for the plan under this paragraph (d) must also be used to compute the present value of the benefit for purposes of determining whether consent for a distribution is required under paragraph (b) of this section.

(ii) *Defined contribution plans.* Because the accrued benefit under a defined contribution plan equals the account balance, a defined contribution plan is not subject to the requirements of this paragraph (d), regardless of whether the requirements of section 401(a)(11) apply to the plan.

(2) *Applicable mortality table.* The applicable mortality table is the mortality table based on the prevailing commissioners' standard table (described in section 807(d)(5)(A)) used to determine reserves for group annuity contracts issued on the date as of which present value is being determined (without regard to any other subparagraph of section 807(d)(5)), that is prescribed by the Commissioner in revenue rulings, notices, or other guidance published in the Internal Revenue Bulletin (see § 601.601(d)(2)(ii)(*b*) of this chapter). The Commissioner may prescribe rules that apply in the case of a change to the prevailing commissioners' standard table (described in section 807(d)(5)(A)) used to determine reserves for group annuity contracts, in revenue rulings, notices, or other guidance published in the Internal Revenue Bulletin (see § 601.601(d)(2)(ii)(*b*) of this chapter).

(3) *Applicable interest rate*—(i) *General rule.* The applicable interest rate for a month is the annual interest rate on 30-year Treasury securities as specified by the Commissioner for that month in revenue rulings, notices or other guidance published in the Internal Revenue Bulletin (see § 601.601(d)(2)(ii)(*b*) of this chapter).

(ii) *Example.* This example illustrates the rules of this paragraph (d)(3):

Example.Plan A is a calendar year plan. For its 1995 plan year, Plan A provides that the applicable mortality table is the table described in Rev. Rul. 95-6 (1995-1 C.B. 80), and that the applicable interest rate is the annual interest rate on 30-year Treasury securities as specified by the Commissioner for the first full calendar month preceding the calendar month that contains the annuity starting date. Participant P is age 65 in January 1995, which is the month that contains P's annuity starting date. P has an accrued benefit payable monthly of $1,000 and has elected to receive a distribution in the form of a single sum in January 1995. The annual interest rate on 30-year Treasury securities as published by the Commissioner for December 1994 is 7.87 percent. To satisfy the requirements of section 417(e)(3) and this paragraph (d), the single sum received by P may not be less than $111,351.

(4) *Time for determining interest rate*—(i) *General rule.* Except as provided in paragraph (d)(4)(iv) or (v) of this section, the applicable interest rate to be used for a distribution is the rate determined under paragraph (d)(3) of this section for the applicable lookback month. The applicable lookback month for a distribution is the lookback month (as described in paragraph (d)(4)(iii) of this section) for the month (or other longer stability period described in paragraph (d)(4)(ii) of this section) that contains the annuity starting date for the distribution. The time and method for determining the applicable interest rate for each participant's distribution must be determined in a consistent manner that is applied uniformly to all participants in the plan.

(ii) *Stability period.* A plan must specify the period for which the applicable interest rate remains constant. This stability period may be one calendar month, one plan quarter, one calendar quarter, one plan year, or one calendar year.

(iii) *Lookback month.* A plan must specify the lookback month that is used to determine the applicable interest rate. The lookback month may be the first, second, third, fourth, or fifth full calendar month preceding the first day of the stability period.

(iv) *Permitted average interest rate.* A plan may apply the rules of paragraph (d)(4)(i) of this section by substituting a permitted average interest rate with respect to the plan's stability period for the rate determined under paragraph (d)(3) of this section for the applicable lookback month for the stability period. For this purpose, a permitted average interest rate with respect to a stability period is an interest rate that is computed by averaging the applicable interest rates determined under paragraph (d)(3) of this section for two or more consecutive months from among the first, second, third, fourth, and fifth calendar months preceding the first day of the stability period. For this paragraph (d)(4)(iv) to apply, a plan must specify the manner in which the permitted average interest rate is computed.

(v) *Additional determination dates.* The Commissioner may prescribe, in revenue rulings, notices or other guidance published in the Internal Revenue Bulletin (see § 601.601(d)(2)(ii)(*b*)), other times that a plan may provide for determining the applicable interest rate.

(vi) *Example.* This example illustrates the rules of this paragraph (d)(4):

Example.Employer X maintains Plan A, a calendar year plan. Employer X wishes to amend Plan A so that the applicable interest rate will remain fixed for each plan quarter, and so that the applicable interest rate for distributions made during each plan quarter can be determined approximately 80 days before the beginning of the plan quarter. To comply with the provisions of this paragraph (d)(4), Plan A is amended to provide that the applicable interest rate is the annual interest rate on 30-year Treasury securities as specified by the Commissioner for the fourth calendar month preceding the first day of the plan quarter during which the annuity starting date occurs.

(5) *Use of alternative interest rate and mortality table.* If a plan provides for use of an interest rate or mortality table other than the applicable interest rate or the applicable mortality table, the plan must provide that a participant's benefit must be at least as great as the benefit produced by using the applicable interest rate and the applicable mortality table. For example, if a plan provides for use of an interest rate of 7% and the UP-1984 Mortality Table (see § 1.401(a)(4)-12, *Standard mortality table*) in calculating single-sum distributions, the plan must provide that any single-sum distribution is calculated as the greater of the single-sum benefit calculated using 7% and the UP-1984 Mortality Table and the single-sum benefit calculated using the applicable interest rate and the applicable mortality table.

(6) *Exceptions.* This paragraph (d) (other than the provisions relating to section 411(d)(6) requirements in paragraph (d)(10) of this section) does not apply to the amount of a distribution paid in the form of an annual benefit that—

(i) Does not decrease during the life of the participant, or, in the case of a QPSA, the life of the participant's spouse; or

(ii) Decreases during the life of the participant merely because of—

(A) The death of the survivor annuitant (but only if the reduction is to a level not below 50% of the annual benefit payable before the death of the survivor annuitant); or

(B) The cessation or reduction of Social Security supplements or qualified disability benefits (as defined in section 411(a)(9)).

(7) *Application to portion of a participant's benefit*—(i) *In general.* This paragraph (d)(7) provides rules under which the requirements of this paragraph (d) apply to the distribution of only a portion of a participant's accrued benefit. Paragraph (d)(7)(ii) of this section provides rules for how a participant's accrued benefit may be bifurcated into separate components for purposes of applying this paragraph (d). Paragraph (d)(7)(iii) of this section provides rules of application. Paragraph (d)(7)(iv) of this section provides certain limited section 411(d)(6) relief, and paragraph (d)(7)(v) of this section provides examples of the application of the rules of this paragraph (d)(7).

(ii) *Bifurcation of accrued benefit*—(A) *Explicit plan-specified bifurcation.* A plan is permitted to provide that the requirements of this paragraph (d) apply to a specified portion of a participant's accrued benefit as if that portion were the participant's entire accrued benefit. For example, a plan is permitted to provide that a distribution in the form of a single-sum payment described in this paragraph (d)(7)(ii)(A) is made to settle a specified percentage of the participant's accrued benefit. As another example, a plan is permitted to provide that a distribution in the form of a single-sum payment described in this paragraph (d)(7)(ii)(A) is made to settle the accrued benefit derived from contributions made by an employee. In both examples, the distribution must satisfy the requirements of this paragraph (d) with respect to the specified portion of the accrued benefit, and the remaining portion of the accrued benefit (the participant's total accrued benefit less the portion of the accrued benefit settled by the single-sum payment) can be paid in some other form of distribution that is available under the plan.

(B) *Distribution of specified amount.* A plan that provides for a distribution of a single-sum payment that is not described in paragraph (d)(7)(ii)(A) of this section satisfies the requirements of this paragraph (d) with respect to that distribution if the portion of the participant's accrued benefit, expressed in the normal form of benefit under the plan and commencing at normal retirement age (or at the current date, if later), that is not settled by the distribution is no less than the excess of—

(*1*) The participant's total accrued benefit expressed in that form; over

(*2*) The annuity payable in that form that is actuarially equivalent to the single-sum payment, determined using the applicable interest rate and the applicable mortality table.

(iii) *Rules of operation*—(A) *Multiple distribution options.* If a participant selects different distribution options with respect to two separate portions of the participant's accrued benefit that were determined in accordance with paragraph (d)(7)(ii) of this section, then the two different distribution options are treated as two separate optional forms of benefit for purposes of applying the requirements of section 417(e)(3) and this paragraph (d), even if the distribution options have the same annuity starting date. Thus, if the exception from the requirements of section 417(e)(3) and this paragraph (d) that is contained in paragraph (d)(6) of this section applies to one of those optional forms of benefit, then this paragraph (d) applies only to the other optional form of benefit.

(B) *Repeated application of rule.* If a participant's accrued benefit has been bifurcated in accordance with paragraph (d)(7)(ii) of this section, then the provisions of paragraph (d)(7)(ii) of this section may be applied again to bifurcate the remaining accrued benefit.

(C) *Requirement to use explicit plan-specified bifurcation in certain cases*—(*1*) *Section 411(d)(6)—protected optional form.* If the amount of a distribution in an optional form of benefit to which this paragraph (d) applies is determined by reference to the portion of a participant's accrued benefit as of the applicable amendment date for an amendment that eliminates that optional form of benefit (but, in accordance with section 411(d)(6), retains the optional form of benefit with respect to benefits accrued as of the applicable amendment date), then the plan must provide for explicit bifurcation of the accrued benefit as described in paragraph (d)(7)(ii)(A) of this section.

(*2*) *Single-sum available with respect to entire accrued benefit.* If a plan provides that a single-sum distribution is available to settle a participant's entire accrued benefit, then, in order to also provide for a distribution in the form of a single-sum payment that settles only a portion of a participant's accrued benefit, the plan must provide for explicit bifurcation of the accrued benefit as described in paragraph (d)(7)(ii)(A) of this section.

(D) *Application of different factors to different portions of the accrued benefit.* If a plan provides for an early retirement benefit, a retirement-type subsidy, an optional form of benefit, or an ancillary benefit, that applies only to a portion of a participant's accrued benefit, and the plan provides for a distribution that settles some, but not all, of the participant's accrued benefit, then the plan must specify which portion of the participant's total accrued benefit is settled by that distribution. For example, if a plan had one set of early retirement factors that applied to the accrued benefit as of December 31, 2005, but a different set of early retirement factors that applied to benefit accruals earned after that date, and the plan provides for a single-sum distribution that settles only a portion of a participant's accrued benefit, then the plan must specify which portion of the accrued benefit is settled by that distribution (in order to determine which early retirement factors apply to the remaining portion of the accrued benefit).

(iv) *Limited section 411(d)(6) anti-cutback relief.* This paragraph (d)(7)(iv) applies in the case of a plan that, for plan years beginning before January 1, 2017, uses the section 417(e)(3) applicable interest rate and applicable mortality table to calculate the amount of a distribution that is made to settle a portion of the accrued benefit if, pursuant to this paragraph (d)(7), the requirements of section 417(e)(3) and this paragraph (d) need not apply to the distribution. In such a case, section 411(d)(6) is not violated merely because, in accordance with this paragraph (d)(7), the plan is amended on or before December 31, 2017, to provide that the amount of a distribution described in the preceding sentence is determined for an annuity starting date on or after the applicable amendment date (within the meaning of § 1.411(d)-3(g)(4)) using the same actuarial assumptions that apply to calculate the amount of a distribution in the same form of benefit that is made to settle the participant's entire accrued benefit.

(v) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the rules of this paragraph (d)(7). Unless otherwise indicated, these examples are based on the following assumptions: The taxpayers elect to apply the rules of this paragraph (d)(7) in 2016; each plan is a noncontributory defined benefit plan with a calendar-year plan year and a normal retirement age of age 65; a one-year stability period coinciding with the calendar year and a two-month lookback are used for determining the applicable interest rate; and all participant elections are made with proper spousal consent. The November 2015 segment rates are 1.76%, 4.15% and 5.13%.

Example 1.(i) Plan A offers a number of optional forms of payment, including a qualified joint and survivor annuity and a single-sum payment. The single-sum payment is equal to the present value of the participant's immediate benefit (but not less than the present value of the participant's accrued benefit payable at normal retirement age) using the applicable interest and mortality rates under section 417(e)(3). The amount of the joint and survivor annuity is determined using plan factors that are not based on the applicable interest and mortality rates under section 417(e)(3). Plan A permits a participant to elect to receive a percentage of the accrued benefit as a single sum and the remainder in any annuity form provided under the plan, with the amount of the single-sum payment determined by multiplying the amount that would be payable if the entire benefit were paid as a single sum by the percentage of the accrued benefit settled by the single-sum payment.

(ii) Participant S retires at age 62 in 2016, with an accrued benefit of $1,000 per month payable as a straight life annuity at normal retirement age. Participant S is eligible for an unreduced early retirement benefit and can therefore collect a straight life annuity benefit of $1,000 per month beginning immediately. Alternatively, Participant S can elect to receive the benefit in other forms, including a single-sum payment of $168,516 (based on the applicable interest and mortality rates under section 417(e), which are the November 2015 segment rates and the 2016 applicable mortality table), or a 100% joint and survivor annuity of $850 per month (based on the plan's actuarial equivalence factors). Participant S elects to receive 25% of the accrued benefit in the form of a single-sum payment and the remaining 75% of the accrued benefit as a 100% joint and survivor annuity.

(iii) Participant S receives a single-sum payment with respect to 25% of the accrued benefit. Accordingly, this single-sum payment is equal to 25% of the full single-sum amount, or $42,129. The remaining portion of the accrued benefit is 75% of the total accrued benefit, or $750 per month payable as a straight life annuity at normal retirement age.

(iv) To settle the remaining portion of the accrued benefit, in addition to the single-sum payment of $42,129, Participant S receives a 100% joint and survivor annuity in the amount of $637.50 per month, which is determined by applying the plan's unreduced early retirement and actuarial equivalence factors to the remaining portion of the accrued benefit of $750 per month payable as a straight life annuity at normal retirement age. The joint and survivor annuity benefit is not subject to the minimum present value requirements of section 417(e)(3) because it is treated as a separate optional form of benefit under paragraph (d)(7)(iii)(A) of this section.

Example 2.(i) Plan B is a contributory defined benefit plan that permits a participant to elect a single sum distribution equal to the participant's employee contributions, accumulated with interest, with the remainder payable as an annuity. Plan B provides that the probability of death before normal retirement age is not taken into account for purposes of determining actuarial equivalence between the single-sum payment and an annuity at normal retirement age. Based on the applicable mortality table for 2016 and the November 2015 segment rates, the deferred annuity factor at age 60 for lifetime payments commencing at age 65 (determined without taking mortality before age 65 into account) is 10.209.

(ii) Participant T retires at age 60 in 2016 with an accrued benefit of $1,500 per month payable as a straight life annuity commencing at normal retirement age. For benefits commencing at age 60, Plan B provides for an early retirement reduction factor of 75% and an actuarial equivalence factor of 98% for adjusting a straight life annuity to a 10-year certain and life annuity, neither of which is based on the applicable interest and mortality rates under section 417(e)(3). Participant T's benefit commencing at age 60 in the form of a 10-year certain and life annuity would be $1,500 × 75% × 98% = $1,102.50 per month. Participant T elects to receive a single sum payment of $32,000 equal to T's accumulated contributions with interest, and the remainder as a 10-year certain and life annuity.

(iii) The single-sum payment elected by Participant T is a distribution that is determined by reference to Participant T's contributions and interest, and not by reference to a specified portion of the participant's accrued benefit. Therefore, the single-sum payment is not described in paragraph (d)(7)(ii)(A) of this section. In order to satisfy paragraph (d)(7)(ii)(B) of this section, the portion of the participant's accrued benefit that is not settled by the single-sum payment must be no less than the excess of (A) the participant's total accrued benefit over (B) the annuity that is actuarially equivalent to the single-sum payment, (determined using the applicable interest and mortality rates under section 417(e)(3) as applicable), both expressed in the normal form of benefit commencing at normal retirement age. The amount of that actuarially equivalent annuity is determined by dividing Participant T's single-sum payment of $32,000 by the deferred annuity factor for lifetime payments commencing at age 65 under the terms of Plan B (10.209, not considering mortality for the deferral period) and dividing by 12 for an actuarially equivalent monthly benefit commencing at age 65 of $261.21. Thus, in order to satisfy paragraph (d)(7)(ii)(B) of this section, the remaining portion of T's accrued benefit must be at least $1,238.79 per month ($1,500.00−$261.21) payable as a straight life annuity at normal retirement age.

(iv) Based on Plan B's early retirement and optional form factors applied to the remaining portion, the annuity benefit payable to Participant T in the form of a 10-year certain and life annuity beginning at age 60 cannot be less than $910.51 per month ($1,238.79 × 75% × 98%). Participant T receives this in addition to the single-sum payment of $32,000. The 10-year certain and life benefit is not subject to the minimum present value requirements of section 417(e)(3) because it is treated as a separate optional form of benefit under paragraph (d)(7)(iii)(A) of this section.

(v) If, instead, Plan B's terms had provided for a single-sum payment equal to the present value of the participant's employee-provided accrued benefit as determined under section 411(c)(3), then the plan is determining the single-sum payment as the present value of a specified portion of the accrued benefit. In such a case, the plan is using explicit bifurcation as described in paragraph (d)(7)(ii)(A) of this section and the single-sum payment would have to be set equal to the present value, determined under Plan B's terms, of T's employee-provided accrued benefit (which may or may not be equal to T's accumulated contributions and interest, depending on the plan's terms). The remaining annuity benefit payable to Participant T would have been based on an accrued benefit equal to $1,500 per month minus the amount of T's employee-provided accrued benefit.

Example 3.(i) The facts are the same as in *Example 2* of this paragraph (d)(7)(v), except that Plan B also offers a single-sum payment option with respect to a participant's entire benefit. The single-sum payment is determined as the present value of the participant's early retirement benefit (but no less than the present value of the participant's accrued benefit) using the applicable interest and mortality rates under section 417(e)(3). Based on the applicable mortality table for 2016 and the November 2015 segment rates, the immediate annuity factor for lifetime payments commencing at age 60 is 14.632. Under the terms of the plan, the early retirement benefit payable as a straight life annuity to Participant T at age 60 with respect to T's full accrued benefit is $1,125 ($1,500 × 75%), and the corresponding single-sum amount payable to T is $1,125 × 14.632 × 12 = $197,532. (Note that this amount is larger than the age-60 present value of T's accrued benefit without taking mortality before age 65 into account, $1,500 × 10.209 × 12 = $183,762.) Participant T elects to receive a partial single-sum payment of $32,000, equal to T's accumulated contributions with interest and to take the remaining accrued benefit in the form of a 10-year certain and life annuity commencing at age 60.

(ii) Because the plan also provides for a single-sum payment option with respect to a participant's entire benefit, pursuant to paragraph (d)(7)(iii)(C)(*2*) of this section the partial single-sum payment must be determined pursuant to the explicit bifurcation rules of paragraph (d)(7)(ii)(A) of this section.

(iii) The portion of the participant's accrued benefit that is settled by the single-sum payment of $32,000 is determined as the amount that bears the same ratio to the total accrued benefit as that single-sum payment bears to the single-sum payment with respect to the entire accrued benefit (($32,000 ÷ $197,532) × $1,500), which is $243 per month payable as a straight life annuity at normal retirement age. Thus, the remaining portion of the accrued benefit is $1,257.00 per month payable as a straight life annuity at normal retirement age.

(iv) Based on Plan B's early retirement and optional form factors applied to the remaining portion, the annuity benefit payable to Participant T in the form of a 10-year certain and life annuity beginning at age 60 is $923.90 per month ($1,257 × 75% × 98%). Participant T receives this benefit in addition to the single sum payment of $32,000. The 10-year certain and life benefit is not subject to the minimum present value requirements of section 417(e)(3) because it is treated as a separate optional form of benefit under paragraph (d)(7)(iii)(A) of this section.

Example 4.(i) Plan C was amended to freeze benefits under a traditional defined benefit formula as of December 31, 2016, and to provide benefits under a cash balance formula beginning January 1, 2017. The plan provides that participants may elect separate distribution options for the portion of the benefit accrued under the traditional formula as of December 31, 2016, and the portion of the benefit earned under the cash balance formula. Furthermore, the plan provides that a participant may elect to receive a single-sum payment only with respect to the portion of the benefit earned under the cash balance formula.

(ii) In accordance with paragraph (d)(7)(ii)(A) of this section, Plan C provides for an explicitly bifurcated accrued benefit because the portion of the accrued benefit settled by a distribution is determined separately for the portion under the traditional formula and the portion under the cash balance formula. As provided under paragraph (d)(7)(iii)(A) of this section, a single-sum payment under the cash balance formula and a distribution option under the traditional formula are treated as two separate optional forms of benefit for purposes of applying the provisions of the plan implementing the requirements of section 417(e)(3) and this paragraph (d). Therefore, whether a participant elects to receive a single-sum payment of the portion of the benefit earned under the cash balance formula does not affect whether the distribution elected with respect to the portion of the benefit earned as of December 31, 2016, is subject to the minimum present value requirements of section 417(e)(3).

Example 5.(i) The facts are the same as in *Example 4* of this paragraph (d)(7)(v), except that Plan C also permits a participant to elect, with respect to the cash balance portion of the benefit, to receive a percentage of that portion as a single sum and the remainder in any annuity form provided under the plan, with the amount of the single-sum payment determined by multiplying the amount that would be payable if the entire cash balance portion were paid as a single sum by the percentage of the cash balance portion settled by the single-sum payment. Participant W retires at age 65, with an accrued benefit under the traditional defined benefit formula (earned as of December 31, 2016) of $500 per month payable as a straight life annuity at normal retirement age and a cash balance hypothetical account balance of $45,000. Based on Plan C's actuarial equivalence factors, Participant W's accrued benefit derived from the cash balance hypothetical account is $320 per month, payable as a straight life annuity at normal retirement age. Participant W elects to receive1/3 or $15,000 of the current hypothetical account balance in the form of a single sum and to receive the remainder of the total accrued benefit as a straight life annuity.

(ii) Under the analysis set forth in *Example 4* of this paragraph (d)(7)(v), Plan C provides for an explicitly bifurcated accrued benefit with respect to the traditional defined benefit portion and the cash balance portion because the portion of the accrued benefit settled by a distribution is determined separately for the portion under the traditional formula and the portion under the cash balance formula. As provided under paragraph (d)(7)(iii)(A) of this section, a single-sum payment under the cash balance formula and a distribution option under the traditional formula are treated as two separate optional forms of benefit for purposes of applying the provisions of the plan implementing the requirements of section 417(e)(3) and this paragraph (d). Thus, a separate distribution option may be chosen for each of these two portions, and section 417(e)(3) applies separately to each portion.

(iii) In accordance with paragraph (d)(7)(ii)(A) of this section, Plan C also provides for an explicitly bifurcated accrued benefit with respect to the cash balance benefit because the plan provides that a distribution in the form of a single-sum payment is made to settle a specified percentage of the cash balance benefit. As provided under paragraph (d)(7)(iii)(A) of this section, the single-sum payment and the annuity selected by Participant W with respect to the cash balance benefit are treated as two separate optional forms of benefit for purposes of applying the provisions of the plan implementing the requirements of section 417(e)(3) and this paragraph (d). Thus, in accordance with paragraph (d)(7)(ii)(A) of this section,1/3 of the cash balance hypothetical account is settled by the distribution paid out as a single sum (that is, $15,000 ÷ $45,000). After the single-sum payment, the remaining portion of the accrued benefit derived from the cash balance account is2/3 of the initial accrued benefit derived from the cash balance account, or a straight life annuity at normal retirement age of $213.33 per month (2/3 × $320).

(iv) To settle the remaining portion of the entire accrued benefit (the portion of the benefit attributable to service as of December 31, 2016 plus the remaining portion of the cash balance benefit), Participant W receives a monthly life annuity of $713.33 per month payable as a straight life annuity at normal retirement age (equal to the $500 straight life annuity at normal retirement age earned as of December 31, 2016 plus the remaining benefit derived from the cash balance portion of a straight life annuity payable at normal retirement age of $213.33 per month). Participant W's election to receive a single-sum payment of part of the benefit earned under the cash balance formula does not affect whether the remainder of Participant W's distribution is subject to the minimum present value requirements of section 417(e)(3).

Example 6.(i) Plan D permits participants to elect a single-sum payment of up to $10,000 with the remaining benefit payable in the form of an annuity. Participant X retires in 2016 at age 55 with an accrued benefit of $1,000 per month payable as a straight life annuity at normal retirement age. Participant X is eligible for an unreduced early retirement benefit of $1,000 per month payable as a straight life annuity. Alternatively, based on Plan D's definition of actuarial equivalence (which is not based on the applicable interest and mortality rates under section 417(e)(3)), Participant X can receive an immediate benefit in the form of a 100% joint and survivor annuity of $800 per month. Participant X elects to receive a single-sum payment of $10,000, with the balance of the benefit payable as a 100% joint and survivor annuity beginning at age 55. Based on the applicable mortality table for 2016 and the November 2015 segment rates, the deferred annuity factor at age 55 for lifetime payments commencing at age 65 is 7.602.

(ii) Plan D provides for a single-sum distribution of a portion of the participant's accrued benefit but, because the plan initially specifies the amount of the single-sum distribution (rather than the portion of the accrued benefit that is being settled by that distribution), Plan D is described in paragraph (d)(7)(ii)(B) of this section. As provided under paragraph (d)(7)(iii)(A) of this section, the single-sum payment and the joint-and-survivor annuity selected by Participant X are treated as two separate optional forms of benefit for purposes of applying the provisions of the plan implementing the requirements of section 417(e)(3) and this paragraph (d).

(iii) A straight life annuity of $109.62 per month payable at normal retirement age is actuarially equivalent to the $10,000 single-sum payment, determined using the applicable mortality table for 2016 and the November 2015 segment rates ($10,000 ÷ 12 ÷ 7.602). Therefore, pursuant to paragraph (d)(7)(ii)(B) of this section, in order to satisfy this paragraph (d) the remaining portion of the accrued benefit after the single-sum payment of $10,000 must be no less than $890.38 per month payable as a straight life annuity at normal retirement age ($1,000.00−$109.62).

(iv) Based on Plan D's early retirement and optional form factors, in order to satisfy this paragraph (d), the annuity benefit payable to Participant X in the form of a 100% joint-and-survivor annuity beginning at age 55 must be no less than $712.30 per month ($890.38 × .8). Participant X receives this benefit in addition to the single sum payment of $10,000. The joint and survivor annuity benefit is not subject to the minimum present value requirements of section 417(e)(3) because it is treated as a separate optional form of benefit under paragraph (d)(7)(iii)(A) of this section.

Example 7.(i) Plan E provides for an unreduced early retirement benefit for participants who have met certain age and service requirements. Prior to amendment, Plan E permitted participants to elect a single-sum payment equal to the present value of the participant's unreduced early retirement benefit, determined using the applicable interest rate and applicable mortality table under section 417(e)(3). Plan E did not permit participants to elect a single-sum payment with respect to only a portion of their benefits. Effective December 31, 2012, Plan E was amended to eliminate the single-sum payment with respect to benefits accrued after that date.

(ii) Participant Y retires on December 31, 2016, at age 60, after meeting Plan E's age and service requirements for an unreduced early retirement benefit. Participant Y's accrued benefit is $1,000 per month payable as a straight life annuity commencing at normal retirement age, of which $800 per month was accrued as of December 31, 2012. Participant Y elects to take a single-sum payment based on the benefit accrued as of December 31, 2012, with the remainder paid as a lifetime annuity commencing at age 60. Based on the applicable mortality table for 2016 and the November 2015 segment rates, the immediate annuity factor for lifetime payments commencing at age 60 is 14.632, so Y's single-sum payment is $800 × 12 × 14.632 = $140,467.20.

(iii) In accordance with paragraph (d)(7)(iii)(C)(*1*) of this section, Plan E provides for explicit bifurcation of the accrued benefit as described in paragraph (d)(7)(ii)(A) of this section. Therefore, Participant Y must receive an annuity of $200 earned after December 31, 2012 in addition to the single-sum payment of $140,467. Plan E is not permitted to use the approach described in paragraph (d)(7)(ii)(B) of this section to reduce or eliminate the $200 annuity earned after December 31, 2012.

(8) *Effective/applicability date*—(i) *In general.* Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (d)(8), this paragraph (d) applies to distributions with annuity starting dates in plan years beginning on or after January 1, 1995.

(ii) *Optional delayed effective date of Retirement Protection Act of 1994 (RPA '94)(108 Stat. 5012) rules for plans adopted and in effect before December 8, 1994.* For a plan adopted and in effect before December 8, 1994, the application of the rules relating to the applicable mortality table and applicable interest rate under paragraphs (d)(2) through (4) of this section is delayed to the extent provided in this paragraph (d)(8)(ii), if the plan provisions in effect on December 7, 1994, met the requirements of section 417(e)(3) and § 1.417(e)-1(d) as in effect on December 7, 1994 (as contained in 26 CFR part 1 revised April 1, 1995). In the case of a distribution from such a plan with an annuity starting date that precedes the optional delayed effective date described in paragraph (d)(8)(iv) of this section, and that precedes the first day of the first plan year beginning after December 31, 1999, the rules of paragraph (d)(9) of this section (which generally apply to distributions with annuity starting dates in plan years beginning before January 1, 1995) apply in lieu of the rules of paragraphs (d)(2) through (4) of this section. The interest rate under the rules of paragraph (d)(9) of this section is determined under the provisions of the plan as in effect on December 7, 1994, reflecting the interest rate or rates published by the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC) and the provisions of the plan for determining the date on which the interest rate is fixed. The above described interest rate or rates published by the PBGC are those determined by the PBGC (for the date determined under those plan provisions) pursuant to the methodology under the regulations of the PBGC for determining the present value of a lump sum distribution on plan termination under 29 CFR part 2619 that were in effect on September 1, 1993 (as contained in 29 CFR part 2619 revised July 1, 1994).

(iii) *Optional accelerated effective date of RPA '94 rules.* This paragraph (d) is also effective for a distribution with an annuity starting date after December 7, 1994, during a plan year beginning before January 1, 1995, if the employer elects, on or before the annuity starting date, to make the rules of this paragraph (d) effective with respect to the plan as of the optional accelerated effective date described in paragraph (d)(8)(iv) of this section. An employer is treated as making this election by making the plan amendments described in paragraph (d)(8)(iv) of this section.

(iv) *Determination of delayed or accelerated effective date by plan amendment adopting RPA '94 rules.* The optional delayed effective date of paragraph (d)(8)(ii) of this section, or the optional accelerated effective date of paragraph (d)(8)(iii) of this section, whichever is applicable, is the date plan amendments applying both the applicable mortality table of paragraph (d)(2) of this section and the applicable interest rate of paragraph (d)(3) of this section are adopted or, if later, are made effective.

(v) *Effective date for special rules applicable to the payment of a portion of a participant's benefit.* Paragraph (d)(7) of this section applies to distributions with annuity starting dates in plan years beginning on or after January 1, 2017. However, taxpayers may elect to apply the rules of paragraph (d)(7) of this section to earlier periods.

(9) *Plan years beginning before January 1, 1995*—(i) *Interest rate.* (A) For distributions made in plan years beginning after December 31, 1986, and before January 1, 1995, the following interest rate described in paragraph (d)(9)(i)(A)(*1*) or (*2*) of this section, whichever applies, is substituted for the applicable interest rate for purposes of this section—

(*1*) The rate or rates that would be used by the PBGC for a trusteed single-employer plan to value the participant's (or beneficiary's) vested benefit (PBGC interest rate) if the present value of such benefit does not exceed $25,000; or

(*2*) 120 percent of the PBGC interest rate, as determined in accordance with paragraph (d)(9)(i)(A)(*1*) of this section, if such present value exceeds $25,000. In no event shall the present value determined by use of 120 percent of the PBGC interest rate result in a present value less than $25,000.

(B) The PBGC interest rate may be a series of interest rates for any given date. For example, the PBGC interest rate for immediate annuities for November 1994 is 6%, and the PBGC interest rates for the deferral period for that month are as follows: 5.25% for the first 7 years of the deferral period, 4% for the following 8 years of the deferral period, and 4% for the remainder of the deferral period. For November 1994, 120 percent of the PBGC interest rate is 7.2% (1.2 times 6%) for an immediate annuity, 6.3% (1.2 times 5.25%) for the first 7 years of the deferral period, 4.8% (1.2 times 4%) for the following 8 years of the deferral period, and 4.8% (1.2 times 4%) for the remainder of the deferral period. The PBGC interest rates are the interest rates that would be used (as of the date of the distribution) by the PBGC for purposes of determining the present value of that benefit upon termination of an insufficient trusteed single employer plan. Except as otherwise provided by the Commissioner, the PBGC interest rates are determined by PBGC regulations. See subpart B of 29 CFR part 4044 for the applicable PBGC rates.

(ii) *Time for determining interest rate.* (A) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(9)(ii)(B) of this section, the PBGC interest rate or rates are determined on either the annuity starting date or the first day of the plan year that contains the annuity starting date. The plan must provide which date is applicable.

(B) The plan may provide for the use of any other time for determining the PBGC interest rate or rates provided that such time is not more than 120 days before the annuity starting date if such time is determined in a consistent manner and is applied uniformly to all participants.

(C) The Commissioner may, in revenue rulings, notices or other guidance published in the Internal Revenue Bulletin (see § 601.601(d)(2)(ii)(*b*), prescribe other times for determining the PBGC interest rate or rates.

(iii) *No applicable mortality table.* In the case of a distribution to which this paragraph (d)(9) applies, the rules of this paragraph (d) are applied without regard to the applicable mortality table described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section.

(10) *Relationship with section 411(d)(6)*—(i) *In general.* A plan amendment that changes the interest rate, the time for determining the interest rate, or the mortality assumptions used for the purposes described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section is subject to section 411(d)(6). But see § 1.411(d)-4, Q&A-2(b)(2)(v) (regarding plan amendments relating to involuntary distributions). In addition, a plan amendment that changes the interest rate or the mortality assumptions used for the purposes described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section merely to eliminate use of the interest rate described in paragraph (d)(3) or paragraph (d)(9) of this section, or the applicable mortality table, with respect to a distribution form described in paragraph (d)(6) of this section, for distributions with annuity starting dates occurring after a specified date that is after the amendment is adopted, does not violate the requirements of section 411(d)(6) if the amendment is adopted on or before the last day of the last plan year ending before January 1, 2000.

(ii) *Section 411(d)(6) relief for change in time for determining interest rate.* Notwithstanding the general rule of paragraph (d)(10)(i) of this section, if a plan amendment changes the time for determining the applicable interest rate (including an indirect change as a result of a change in plan year), the amendment will not be treated as reducing accrued benefits in violation of section 411(d)(6) merely on account of this change if the conditions of this paragraph (d)(10)(ii) are satisfied. If the plan amendment is effective on or after the adoption date, any distribution for which the annuity starting date occurs in the one-year period commencing at the time the amendment is effective must be determined using the interest rate provided under the plan determined at either the date for determining the interest rate before the amendment or the date for determining the interest rate after the amendment, whichever results in the larger distribution. If the plan amendment is adopted retroactively (that is, the amendment is effective prior to the adoption date), the plan must use the interest rate determination date resulting in the larger distribution for the period beginning with the effective date and ending one year after the adoption date.

(iii) *Section 411(d)(6) relief for plan amendments pursuant to changes to section 417 made by RPA '94 providing for statutory interest rate determination date.* Notwithstanding the general rule of paragraph (d)(10)(i) of this section, except as provided in paragraph (d)(10)(vi)(B) of this section, a participant's accrued benefit is not considered to be reduced in violation of section 411(d)(6) merely because of a plan amendment that changes any interest rate or mortality assumption used to calculate the present value of a participant's benefit under the plan, if the following conditions are satisfied—

(A) The amendment replaces the PBGC interest rate (or an interest rate or rates based on the PBGC interest rate) as the interest rate used under the plan in determining the present value of a participant's benefit under this paragraph (d); and

(B) After the amendment is effective, the present value of a participant's benefit under the plan cannot be less than the amount calculated using the applicable mortality table and the applicable interest rate for the first full calendar month preceding the calendar month that contains the annuity starting date.

(iv) *Section 411(d)(6) relief for plan amendments pursuant to changes to section 417 made by RPA '94 providing for prior determination date or up to two months earlier.* Notwithstanding the general rule of paragraph (d)(10)(i) of this section, except as provided in paragraph (d)(10)(vi)(B) of this section, a participant's accrued benefit is not considered to be reduced in violation of section 411(d)(6) merely because of a plan amendment that changes any interest rate or mortality assumption used to calculate the present value of a participant's benefit under the plan, if the following conditions are satisfied—

(A) The amendment replaces the PBGC interest rate (or an interest rate or rates based on the PBGC interest rate) as the interest rate used under the plan in determining the present value of a participant's benefit under this paragraph (d); and

(B) After the amendment is effective, the present value of a participant's benefit under the plan cannot be less than the amount calculated using the applicable mortality table and the applicable interest rate, but only if the applicable interest rate is the annual interest rate on 30-year Treasury securities for the calendar month that contains the date as of which the PBGC interest rate (or an interest rate or rates based on the PBGC interest rate) was determined immediately before the amendment, or for one of the two calendar months immediately preceding such month.

(v) *Section 411(d)(6) relief for plan amendments pursuant to changes to section 417 made by RPA '94 providing for other interest rate determination date.* Notwithstanding the general rule of paragraph (d)(10)(i) of this section, except as provided in paragraph (d)(10)(vi)(B) of this section, a participant's accrued benefit is not considered to be reduced in violation of section 411(d)(6) merely because of a plan amendment that changes any interest rate or mortality assumption used to calculate the present value of a participant's benefit under the plan, if the following conditions are satisfied—

(A) The amendment replaces the PBGC interest rate (or an interest rate or rates based on the PBGC interest rate) as the interest rate used under the plan in determining the present value of a participant's benefit under this paragraph (d);

(B) After the amendment is effective, the present value of a participant's benefit under the plan cannot be less than the amount calculated using the applicable mortality table and the applicable interest rate; and

(C) The plan amendment satisfies either the condition of paragraph (d)(10)(ii) of this section (determined using the interest rate provided under the terms of the plan after the effective date of the amendment) or the special early transition interest rate rule of paragraph (d)(10)(vi)(C) of this section.

(vi) *Special rules*—(A) *Provision of temporary additional benefits.* A plan amendment described in paragraph (d)(10)(iii), (iv), or (v) of this section is not considered to reduce a participant's accrued benefit in violation of section 411(d)(6) even if the plan amendment provides for temporary additional benefits to accommodate a more gradual transition from the plan's old interest rate to the new rules.

(B) *Replacement of non-PBGC interest rate.* The section 411(d)(6) relief provided in paragraphs (d)(10)(iii) through (v) of this section does not apply to a plan amendment that replaces an interest rate other than the PBGC interest rate (or an interest rate or rates based on the PBGC interest rate) as an interest rate used under the plan in determining the present value of a participant's benefit under this paragraph (d). Thus, the accrued benefit determined using that interest rate and the associated mortality table is protected under section 411(d)(6). For purposes of this paragraph (d), an interest rate is based on the PBGC interest rate if the interest rate is defined as a specified percentage of the PBGC interest rate, the PBGC interest rate minus a specified number of basis points, or an average of such interest rates over a specified period.

(C) *Special early transition interest rate rule for paragraph (d)(10)(v).* A plan amendment satisfies the special rule of this paragraph (d)(10)(vi)(C) if any distribution for which the annuity starting date occurs in the one-year period commencing at the time the plan amendment is effective is determined using whichever of the following two interest rates results in the larger distribution—

(*1*) The interest rate as provided under the terms of the plan after the effective date of the amendment, but determined at a date that is either one month or two months (as specified in the plan) before the date for determining the interest rate used under the terms of the plan before the amendment; or

(*2*) The interest rate as provided under the terms of the plan after the effective date of the amendment, determined at the date for determining the interest rate after the amendment.

(vii) *Examples.* The provisions of this paragraph (d)(10) are illustrated by the following examples:

Example 1.On December 31, 1994, Plan A provided that all single-sum distributions were to be calculated using the UP-1984 Mortality Table and 100% of the PBGC interest rate for the date of distribution. On January 4, 1995, and effective on February 1, 1995, Plan A was amended to provide that all single-sum distributions are calculated using the applicable mortality table and the annual interest rate on 30-year Treasury securities for the first full calendar month preceding the calendar month that contains the annuity starting date. Pursuant to paragraph (d)(10)(iii) of this section, this amendment of Plan A is not considered to reduce the accrued benefit of any participant in violation of section 411(d)(6).Example 2.On December 31, 1994, Plan B provided that all single-sum distributions were to be calculated using the UP-1984 Mortality Table and an interest rate equal to the lesser of 100% of the PBGC interest rate for the date of distribution, or 6%. On January 4, 1995, and effective on February 1, 1995, Plan B was amended to provide that all single-sum distributions are calculated using the applicable mortality table and the annual interest rate on 30-year Treasury securities for the second full calendar month preceding the calendar month that contains the annuity starting date. Pursuant to paragraph (d)(10)(iv) of this section, this amendment of Plan B is not considered to reduce the accrued benefit of any participant in violation of section 411(d)(6) merely because of the replacement of the PBGC interest rate. However, under paragraph (d)(10)(vi)(B) of this section, the section 411(d)(6) relief provided in paragraphs (d)(10)(iii) through (v) of this section does not apply to a plan amendment that replaces an interest rate other than the PBGC interest rate (or a rate based on the PBGC interest rate). Therefore, pursuant to paragraph (d)(10)(vi)(B) of this section, to satisfy the requirements of section 411(d)(6), the plan must provide that the single-sum distribution payable to any participant must be no less than the single-sum distribution calculated using the UP-1984 Mortality Table and an interest rate of 6%, based on the participant's benefits under the plan accrued through January 31, 1995, and based on the participant's age at the annuity starting date.Example 3.On December 31, 1994, Plan C, a calendar year plan, provided that all single sum distributions were to be calculated using the UP-1984 Mortality Table and an interest rate equal to the PBGC interest rate for January 1 of the plan year. On March 1, 1995, and effective on July 1, 1995, Plan C was amended to provide that all single-sum distributions are calculated using the applicable mortality table and the annual interest rate on 30-year Treasury securities for August of the year before the plan year that contains the annuity starting date. The plan amendment provides that each distribution with an annuity starting date after June 30, 1995, and before July 1, 1996, is calculated using the 30-year Treasury rate for August of the year before the plan year that contains the annuity starting date, or the 30-year Treasury rate for January of the plan year that contains the annuity starting date, whichever produces the larger benefit. Pursuant to paragraph (d)(10)(v) of this section, the amendment of Plan C is not considered to have reduced the accrued benefit of any participant in violation of section 411(d)(6).Example 4.(a) Employer X maintains Plan D, a calendar year plan. As of December 7, 1994, Plan D provided for single-sum distributions to be calculated using the PBGC interest rate as of the annuity starting date for distributions not greater than $25,000, and 120% of that interest rate (but not an interest rate producing a present value less than $25,000) for distributions over $25,000. Employer X wishes to delay the effective date of the RPA '94 rules for a year, and to provide for an extended transition from the use of the PBGC interest rate to the new applicable interest rate under section 417(e)(3). On December 1, 1995, and effective on January 1, 1996, Employer X amends Plan D to provide that single-sum distributions are determined as the sum of—

(i) The single-sum distribution calculated based on the applicable mortality table and the annual interest rate on 30-year Treasury securities for the first full calendar month preceding the calendar month that contains the annuity starting date; and

(ii) A transition amount.

(b) The amendment provides that the transition amount for distributions in the years 1996-99 is a transition percentage of the excess, if any, of the amount that the single-sum distribution would have been under the plan provisions in effect prior to this amendment over the amount of the single sum described in paragraph (a)(i) of this *Example 4.* The transition percentages are 80% for 1996, decreasing to 60% for 1997, 40% for 1998 and 20% for 1999. The amendment also provides that the transition amount is zero for plan years beginning on or after the year 2000. Pursuant to paragraphs (d)(10)(iii) and (vi)(A) of this section, the amendment of Plan D is not considered to have reduced the accrued benefit of any participant in violation of section 411(d)(6).

Example 5.On December 31, 1994, Plan E, a calendar year plan, provided that all single-sum distributions were to be calculated using the UP-1984 Mortality Table and an interest rate equal to the PBGC interest rate for January 1 of the plan year. On March 1, 1995, and effective on July 1, 1995, Plan E was amended to provide that all single-sum distributions are calculated using the applicable mortality table and the annual interest rate on 30-year Treasury securities for August of the year before the plan year that contains the annuity starting date. The plan amendment provides that each distribution with an annuity starting date after June 30, 1995, and before July 1, 1996, is calculated using the 30-year Treasury rate for August of the year before the plan year that contains the annuity starting date, or the 30-year Treasury rate for November of the plan year preceding the plan year that contains the annuity starting date, whichever produces the larger benefit. Pursuant to paragraphs (d)(10)(v) and (vi)(C) of this section, the amendment of Plan E is not considered to have reduced the accrued benefit of any participant in violation of section 411(d)(6).

(e) *Special rules for annuity contracts*—(1) *General rule.* Any annuity contract purchased by a plan subject to section 401(a)(11) and distributed to or owned by a participant must provide that benefits under the contract are provided in accordance with the applicable consent, present value, and other requirements of sections 401(a)(11) and 417 applicable to the plan.

(2) [Reserved]

(f) *Effective dates*—(1) *Annuity contracts.* (i) Paragraph (e) of this section does not apply to contracts distributed to or owned by a participant prior to September 17, 1985, unless additional contributions are made under the plan by the employer with respect to such contracts.

(ii) In the case of a contract owned by the employer or distributed to or owned by a participant prior to the first plan year beginning after December 31, 1988, paragraph (e) of this section shall be satisfied if the annuity contracts described therein satisfy the requirements in §§ 1.401(a)-11T and 1.417(e)-1T. The preceding sentence shall not apply if additional contributions are made under the plan by the employer with respect to such contracts on or after the beginning of the first plan year beginning after December 31, 1988.

(2) *Interest rates.* (i) A plan that uses the PBGC immediate interest rate as required by § 1.417(e)-1T(e) for distributions commencing in plan years beginning before January 1, 1987, shall be deemed to satisfy paragraph (d) of this section for such years.

(ii) For a special exception to the requirements of section 411(d)(6) for certain plan amendments that incorporate applicable interest rates, see section 1139(d)(2) of the Tax Reform Act of 1986.

(3) *Other effective dates and transitional rules.* (i) Except as otherwise provided, a plan will be treated as satisfying sections 401(a)(11) and 417 for plan years beginning before the first plan year that the requirements of section 410(b) as amended by TRA 86 apply to such plan, if the plan satisfied the requirements in §§ 1.401(a)-11T and 1.417(e)-1T.

(ii) See § 1.401(a)-20 for other effective dates and transitional rules that apply to plans subject to sections 401(a)(11) and 417.

[T.D. 8219, 53 FR 31854, Aug. 22, 1988; 53 FR 48534, Dec. 1, 1988, as amended by T.D. 8591, 60 FR 17219, Apr. 5, 1995; T.D. 8620, 60 FR 49221, Sept. 22, 1995; T.D. 8768, 63 FR 16898, Apr. 7, 1998; T.D. 8796, 63 FR 70011, Dec. 18, 1998; T.D. 8794, 63 FR 70338, Dec. 21, 1998; T.D. 8891, 65 FR 44681, 44682, July 19, 2000; T.D. 9076, 68 FR 41909, July 16, 2003; T.D. 9099, 68 FR 70149, Dec. 17, 2003; T.D. 9783, 81 FR 62361, Sept. 9, 2016]