##### ยง 5001.305 Specific application requirements for WWD projects. #####

Link to an amendment published at 89 FR 79720, Sept. 30, 2024.

In addition to the requirements specified in ยง 5001.303, a lender seeking a loan guarantee for a WWD project must submit the documents specified in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section.

(a) *Engineering documentation.* (1) Engineering documentation must meet the level of detail the lender would typically require for a standard commercial loan, and include, at a minimum, a description of the proposed project, a cost estimate, the number of residential and non-residential connections, and the population served. The lender may request assistance to clarify the Agency's requirements and regulations; however, the Agency does not provide technical oversight or recommendations as to the technical feasibility of the project.

(2) The lender must ensure that the project is designed utilizing accepted architectural and engineering practices and conforms to applicable Federal requirements (*e.g.* the seismic requirements of Executive Order 12699 (55 FR 835, 3 CFR, 1990 Comp., p. 269), the debarment requirements of 2 CFR part 417, American Iron and Steel (Section 746 of Title VII of the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2017), and the Copeland Anti-Kickback Act (18 U.S.C. 874)); State, local and Tribal codes and requirements; and facility plans or plans and specifications reviewed and approved by the applicable State, local and/or Tribal regulatory agency. The lender must also ensure that the planned project will be completed within the available funds and, once completed, will be suitable for the borrower's needs. Upon completion of the project, the lender must certify that all applicable Federal requirements were met.

(b) *Feasibility considerations.* All projects financed under this part must be based on projected taxes, assessments, revenues, fees, or other sources of revenues in an amount sufficient to provide for project operation and maintenance, any reserves required by the lender, and debt payment. The lender's financial credit analysis must take into consideration any interest rate adjustment that may be instituted under the terms of the loan note guarantee.

(c) *Credit analysis requirements.* In addition to the requirements of ยง 5001.202, if the majority user of the system is a business and the financial success of the system is dependent on that business, then the economic viability of that business must be assessed.