##### ยง 5001.304 Specific application requirements for CF projects. #####

In addition to the requirements specified in ยง 5001.303 as applicable, a lender seeking a loan guarantee for a CF project must submit a financial feasibility report prepared by a qualified firm or individual acceptable to the Agency. All projects financed under this section must meet the financial feasibility requirements of this section and must be based on projected taxes, assessments, revenues, fees, or other sources of revenues in an amount sufficient to provide for project operation and maintenance, debt payments, and compliance with lender reserve requirements, when applicable. Other sources of revenue or existence of payment guarantors are particularly important in considering the feasibility of eligible recreation projects. The financial feasibility report must take into consideration any interest rate adjustment that may be instituted under the terms of the promissory note. Financial projections for projects that are assisted living facilities, skilled nursing facilities, or similar types of eligible residential facilities must be based on no more than 90 percent occupancy. Utility projects dependent on user fees for debt repayment shall base their income and expense forecast on user estimates supported by either a state statute or local ordinance requiring mandatory hookup or signed and enforceable user agreements. If the primary use of the essential community facility is by a business and the success or failure of the facility is dependent on that business, then the economic viability of that business must also be assessed. For projects that include the purchase and installation of RES that meet the eligibility requirements of ยง 5001.103(a)(8), a technical report on the RES as outlined in ยง 5001.307(e)(1) and (2), as applicable, will be included with the applicable financial feasibility report. The type of financial feasibility report required will depend upon the size of the guaranteed loan, the collateral o securing the guaranteed loan, and the financial history of the borrower. The two types of financial feasibility report and when they are required are described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.

(a) *Financial feasibility analysis.* The financial feasibility analysis will be prepared by a qualified firm or individual who may be the lender. Financial feasibility analysis requirements are outlined in appendix B to subpart D of this part. The lender's credit evaluation may serve as the financial feasibility analysis provided it includes the items outlined in appendix B to subpart D of this part. A financial feasibility analysis will be required if any of the following circumstances exist:

(1) Guaranteed loans of $5 million or less;

(2) Guaranteed loans secured by a general obligation bond, or other tax supported income sufficient to pay the debt service for the life of the loan; or

(3) Borrowers with audited financial statements, if the last three years indicate the ability to pay all existing and new debt service.

(b) *Financial feasibility study with examination opinion.* The report must be prepared in accordance with the standards of attestation of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, and the preparer must have the requisite professional liability insurance in place. A financial feasibility study with examination opinion will be required for all guaranteed loans that do not meet the requirements for a financial feasibility analysis outlined in paragraph (a) of this section. The financial feasibility study with examination opinion will typically include the items outlined in appendix B to subpart D of this part.