cfr/title-07-Agriculture/subtitle-B-Regulations-Department-Agriculture/chapter-I-Agricultural-Marketing-Service-Standards-Inspections-Marketing-Practices-Department-Agriculture/subchapter-E-Commodity-Laboratory-Testing-Programs/part-91-Services-General-Information/subpart-B-General-Services/section-91.4.md, before:

##### § 91.4 Kinds of services. #####

Link to an amendment published at 85 FR 62942, Oct. 6, 2020.

(a) Analytical tests. Analytical laboratory testing services under the regulations in this subchapter consist of microbiological, chemical, and certain other analyses, requested by the applicant and performed on tobacco, seed, dairy, egg, fruit and vegetable, meat and poultry products, and related processed products. Analyses are performed to determine if products meet Federal specifications or specifications defined in purchase contracts and cooperative agreements. Laboratory analyses are also performed on egg products as part of the mandatory Egg Products Inspection Program under the management of USDA's Food Safety and Inspection Service (FSIS) as detailed in 9 CFR 590.580.

(b) *Examination and licensure.* The manager of a particular Science and Technology program administers examinations and licenses analysts in laboratories for competency in performing commodity testing services.

(c) Quality assurance reviews. The Science and Technology representative performs on-site laboratory quality assurance reviews (both required and voluntary) to ensure that appropriate technical methods, equipment maintenance, and quality control procedures are being observed.

(d) Consultation. Technical advice, statistical science consultation, and quality assurance program assistance are provided by the representatives for the Science and Technology programs for domestic and foreign laboratories.

[65 FR 64309, Oct. 26, 2000, as amended at 68 FR 69946, Dec. 16, 2003]

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2020-11-05 issue
Title: 7: Agriculture - Sections changed: 31
Title: 13: Business Credit and Assistance - Sections changed: 2
Title: 16: Commercial Practices - Sections changed: 1
Title: 17: Commodity and Securities Exchanges - Sections changed: 12
Title: 20: Employees' Benefits - Sections changed: 2
Title: 10: Energy - Sections changed: 12
Title: 39: Postal Service - Sections changed: 2
Title: 40: Protection of Environment - Sections changed: 10
Title: 42: Public Health - Sections changed: 2
Title: 47: Telecommunication - Sections changed: 91

cfr/title-07-Agriculture/subtitle-B-Regulations-Department-Agriculture/chapter-I-Agricultural-Marketing-Service-Standards-Inspections-Marketing-Practices-Department-Agriculture/subchapter-E-Commodity-Laboratory-Testing-Programs/part-91-Services-General-Information/subpart-B-General-Services/section-91.4.md, after:

##### § 91.4 Kinds of services. #####

(a) Analytical tests. Analytical laboratory testing services under the regulations in this subchapter consist of microbiological, chemical, and certain other analyses, requested by the applicant and performed on tobacco, seed, dairy, egg, fruit and vegetable, meat and poultry products, and related processed products. Analyses are performed to determine if products meet Federal specifications or specifications defined in purchase contracts and cooperative agreements. Laboratory analyses are also performed on egg products as part of the mandatory Egg Products Inspection Program under the management of USDA's Food Safety and Inspection Service (FSIS) as detailed in 9 CFR 590.580.

(b) *Examination and licensure.* The manager of a particular Science and Technology program administers examinations and licenses analysts in laboratories for competency in performing commodity testing services.

(c) Agricultural Marketing Service Audit Verification and Accreditation Programs as described in 7 CFR 62.200.

(d) Consultation. Technical advice, statistical science consultation, and quality assurance program assistance are provided by the representatives for the Science and Technology programs for domestic and foreign laboratories.

[65 FR 64309, Oct. 26, 2000, as amended at 68 FR 69946, Dec. 16, 2003; 85 FR 62942, Oct. 6, 2020]
