##### ยง 644.502 Determination of excess status. #####

(a) *Military.* The procedure for excessing and disposal of standing timber and embedded gravel, sand and stone is outlined in AR 405-90. The procedure for the determination of availability of timber for disposal is outlined in AR 420-74.

(b) *Civil works.* (1) When the DE believes that standing timber, embedded gravel, sand or stone (whether designated for disposition with the land or by severance and removal from the land) is excess to requirements, he will submit a recommendation to DAEN-REM for approval. The DE is authorized, however, to dispose of standing timber or other forest products required to be removed incident to construction and operational requirements of the project; that which is generated incident to recreational development or the management of public park and recreational areas or wildlife management areas; or that which is generated in accordance with approved forest management supplements to the approved Master Plan (ER 1130-2-400). As far as practicable, high grade species in short supply will not be disposed of, but will be retained for possible defense requirements. When the amount for sawtimber under the above criteria available for disposal exceeds 5,000,000 board feet, request will be made to DAEN-REM, for determination of whether there are any defense requirements for the timber. The request will include an estimate of the amounts by species and the range in sizes. All timber disposals, except those involving timber below the project clearing line or in construction sites, will be compatible with the planned use of the areas for the purpose to which they are allocated in approved Master Plans and such disposals will be incidental to that use. The DE may authorize the disposal of growing crops when their disposal is deemed necessary to prevent waste.

(2) Under the provisions of section 5 of the act of 13 June 1902, as amended, (33 U.S.C. 558), proceeds from disposal of these items on civil works property may be returned to the appropriation.