##### § 644.506 Procedure for transfer to another Federal agency. #####

As soon as possible after standing timber, embedded sand, gravel, or stone are made available for disposal, other Federal agencies having activities within the vicinity of the location of the property and which, in the opinion to the responsible DE, may desire transfer of the property will, to the extent practicable or economical, be notified of the availability of the property for disposal. Such notification should include the following: information concerning how arrangements can be made to inspect the property; information concerning conditions governing cutting, harvesting, mining, or removal of the property and a statement that the property will be advertised for sale upon the expiration of fifteen (15) calendar days from the date of the notification, unless a request for transfer of the property, or a statement that a request for transfer of the property, or a statement that a request therefor may be made, is received within the fifteen (15) day period. Should a Federal agency request within the fifteen (15) day period, that disposal of the property be withheld pending determination of a requirement, disposal will be withheld not longer than sixty (60) days from the date of notice of availability, unless DAEN-REM approves withholding disposal for a longer period. Disposal will not be withheld for such sixty (60) day period, extended if applicable, if to do so would interfere with construction or other necessary operations. Should a request be received from a Federal agency for transfer of the property, the property will be transferred in accordance with existing procedures without reimbursement except as provided by FPMR 101-47.203-7. If no request for transfer is received, the property will be considered surplus and disposed of by one of the methods outlined in §§ 644.507 and 644.508. The foregoing instructions do not apply to land clearance operations performed either by contract or force account. It applies only to those cases where it is proposed to offer property for sale.