##### ยง 1.85 Suspension of operator licenses. #####

Link to an amendment published at 85 FR 85529, Dec. 29, 2020.

Whenever grounds exist for suspension of an operator license, as provided in ยง 303(m) of the Communications Act, the Chief of the Wireless Telecommunications Bureau, with respect to amateur and commercial radio operator licenses, may issue an order suspending the operator license. No order of suspension of any operator's license shall take effect until 15 days' notice in writing of the cause for the proposed suspension has been given to the operator licensee, who may make written application to the Commission at any time within the said 15 days for a hearing upon such order. The notice to the operator licensee shall not be effective until actually received by the operator licensee, and from that time the operator licensee shall have 15 days in which to mail the said application. In the event that physical conditions prevent mailing of the application before the expiration of the 15-day period, the application shall then be mailed as soon as possible thereafter, accompanied by a satisfactory explanation of the delay. Upon receipt by the Commission of such application for hearing, said order of suspension shall be designated for hearing and said suspension shall be held in abeyance until the conclusion of the hearing proceeding. If the license is ordered suspended, the operator shall send his, her, or its operator license to the Mobility Division, Wireless Telecommunications Bureau, in Washington, DC, on or before the effective date of the order, or, if the effective date has passed at the time notice is received, the license shall be sent to the Commission forthwith.

[85 FR 63172, Oct. 6, 2020]