cfr/title-50-Wildlife-Fisheries/chapter-I-United-States-Fish-Wildlife-Service-Department-Interior/subchapter-F-Financial-Assistance-Wildlife-Sport-Fish-Restoration-Program/part-80-Administrative-Requirements-PittmanRobertson-Wildlife-Restoration-DingellJohnson-Sport-Fish-Restoration-Acts/subpart-E-Eligible-Activities/section-80.51.md, before:

##### § 80.51 What activities are eligible for funding under the Dingell-Johnson Sport Fish Restoration Act? #####

Link to an amendment published at 84 FR 44786, August 27, 2019.

The following activities are eligible for funding under the Dingell-Johnson Sport Fish Restoration Act:

(a) *Sport Fish Restoration program.* (1) Restore and manage sport fish for the benefit of the public.

(2) Conduct research on the problems of managing fish and their habitat and the problems of fish culture if necessary to administer sport fish resources efficiently.

(3) Obtain data to guide and direct the regulation of fishing. These data may be on:

(i) Size and geographic range of sport fish populations;

(ii) Changes in sport fish populations due to fishing, other human activities, or natural causes; and

(iii) Effects of any measures or regulations applied.

(4) Develop and adopt plans to restock sport fish and forage fish in the natural areas or districts covered by the plans; and obtain data to develop, carry out, and test the effectiveness of the plans.

(5) Stock fish for recreational purposes.

(6) Acquire real property suitable or capable of being made suitable for:

(i) Sport fish habitat or as a buffer to protect that habitat; or

(ii) Public access for sport fishing. Closures to sport fishing must be based on the recommendations of the State fish and wildlife agency for fish and wildlife management purposes.

(7) Restore, rehabilitate, improve, or manage:

(i) Aquatic areas adaptable for sport fish habitat; or

(ii) Land adaptable as a buffer to protect sport fish habitat.

(8) Build structures or acquire equipment, goods, and services to:

(i) Restore, rehabilitate, or improve aquatic habitat for sport fish, or land as a buffer to protect aquatic habitat for sport fish; or

(ii) Provide public access for sport fishing.

(9) Construct, renovate, operate, or maintain pumpout and dump stations. A pumpout station is a facility that pumps or receives sewage from a type III marine sanitation device that the U.S. Coast Guard requires on some vessels. A dump station, also referred to as a “waste reception facility,” is specifically designed to receive waste from portable toilets on vessels.

(10) Operate or maintain:

(i) Projects that the State fish and wildlife agency completed under the Dingell-Johnson Sport Fish Restoration Act; or

(ii) Facilities that the agency acquired or constructed with funds other than those authorized by the Dingell-Johnson Sport Fish Restoration Act if these facilities are necessary to carry out activities authorized by the Act.

(11) Coordinate grants in the Sport Fish Restoration program and related programs and subprograms.

(b) *Sport Fish Restoration - Recreational Boating Access subprogram.* (1) Acquire land for new facilities, build new facilities, or acquire, renovate, or improve existing facilities to create or improve public access to the waters of the United States or improve the suitability of these waters for recreational boating. A broad range of access facilities and associated amenities can qualify for funding, but they must provide benefits to recreational boaters. “Facilities” includes auxiliary structures necessary to ensure safe use of recreational boating access facilities.

(2) Conduct surveys to determine the adequacy, number, location, and quality of facilities providing access to recreational waters for all sizes of recreational boats.

(c) *Sport Fish Restoration - Aquatic Resource Education subprogram.* Enhance the public's understanding of water resources, aquatic life forms, and sport fishing, and develop responsible attitudes and ethics toward the aquatic environment.

(d) *Sport Fish Restoration - Outreach and Communications subprogram.* (1) Improve communications with anglers, boaters, and the general public on sport fishing and boating opportunities.

(2) Increase participation in sport fishing and boating.

(3) Advance the adoption of sound fishing and boating practices including safety.

(4) Promote conservation and responsible use of the aquatic resources of the United States.

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2019-09-26 issue
Title: 7: Agriculture - Sections changed: 4
Title: 15: Commerce and Foreign Trade - Sections changed: 11
Title: 17: Commodity and Securities Exchanges - Sections changed: 8
Title: 48: Federal Acquisition Regulations System - Sections changed: 9
Title: 29: Labor - Sections changed: 2
Title: 40: Protection of Environment - Sections changed: 73
Title: 47: Telecommunication - Sections changed: 11
Title: 50: Wildlife and Fisheries - Sections changed: 31

cfr/title-50-Wildlife-Fisheries/chapter-I-United-States-Fish-Wildlife-Service-Department-Interior/subchapter-F-Financial-Assistance-Wildlife-Sport-Fish-Restoration-Program/part-80-Administrative-Requirements-PittmanRobertson-Wildlife-Restoration-DingellJohnson-Sport-Fish-Restoration-Acts/subpart-E-Eligible-Activities/section-80.51.md, after:

##### § 80.51 What activities are eligible for funding under the Dingell-Johnson Sport Fish Restoration Act? #####

The following activities are eligible for funding under the Dingell-Johnson Sport Fish Restoration Act:

(a) *Sport Fish Restoration program.* (1) Restore and manage sport fish for the benefit of the public.

(2) Conduct research on the problems of managing fish and their habitat and the problems of fish culture if necessary to administer sport fish resources efficiently.

(3) Obtain data to guide and direct the regulation of fishing. These data may be on:

(i) Size and geographic range of sport fish populations;

(ii) Changes in sport fish populations due to fishing, other human activities, or natural causes; and

(iii) Effects of any measures or regulations applied.

(4) Develop and adopt plans to restock sport fish and forage fish in the natural areas or districts covered by the plans; and obtain data to develop, carry out, and test the effectiveness of the plans.

(5) Stock fish for recreational purposes.

(6) Acquire real property suitable or capable of being made suitable for:

(i) Sport fish habitat or as a buffer to protect that habitat; or

(ii) Public access for sport fishing. Closures to sport fishing must be based on the recommendations of the State fish and wildlife agency for fish and wildlife management purposes.

(7) Restore, rehabilitate, improve, or manage:

(i) Aquatic areas adaptable for sport fish habitat; or

(ii) Land adaptable as a buffer to protect sport fish habitat.

(8) Build structures or acquire equipment, goods, and services to:

(i) Restore, rehabilitate, or improve aquatic habitat for sport fish, or land as a buffer to protect aquatic habitat for sport fish; or

(ii) Provide public access for sport fishing.

(iii) Grantees and subgrantees must follow the requirements at 2 CFR part 200 when acquiring equipment, goods, and services under an award, with emphasis on §§ 200.313, 200.317 through 200.326, and 200.439.

(9) Construct, renovate, operate, or maintain pumpout and dump stations. A pumpout station is a facility that pumps or receives sewage from a type III marine sanitation device that the U.S. Coast Guard requires on some vessels. A dump station, also referred to as a “waste reception facility,” is specifically designed to receive waste from portable toilets on vessels.

(10) Operate or maintain:

(i) Projects that the State fish and wildlife agency completed under the Dingell-Johnson Sport Fish Restoration Act; or

(ii) Facilities that the agency acquired or constructed with funds other than those authorized by the Dingell-Johnson Sport Fish Restoration Act if these facilities are necessary to carry out activities authorized by the Act.

(11) Coordinate grants in the Sport Fish Restoration program and related programs and subprograms.

(12) Provide technical assistance.

(13) Make payments in lieu of taxes on real property under the control of the State fish and wildlife agency when the payment is:

(i) Required by State or local law; and

(ii) Required for all State lands including those acquired with Federal funds and those acquired with non-Federal funds.

(b) *Sport Fish Restoration—Recreational Boating Access subprogram.* (1) Acquire land for new facilities, build new facilities, or acquire, renovate, or improve existing facilities to create or improve public access to the waters of the United States or improve the suitability of these waters for recreational boating. A broad range of access facilities and associated amenities can qualify for funding, but they must provide benefits to recreational boaters. “Facilities” includes auxiliary structures necessary to ensure safe use of recreational boating access facilities.

(2) Conduct surveys to determine the adequacy, number, location, and quality of facilities providing access to recreational waters for all sizes of recreational boats.

(c) *Sport Fish Restoration—Aquatic Resource Education subprogram.* Enhance the public's understanding of water resources, aquatic life forms, and sport fishing, and develop responsible attitudes and ethics toward the aquatic environment.

(d) *Sport Fish Restoration—Outreach and Communications subprogram.* (1) Improve communications with anglers, boaters, and the general public on sport fishing and boating opportunities.

(2) Increase participation in sport fishing and boating.

(3) Advance the adoption of sound fishing and boating practices including safety.

(4) Promote conservation and responsible use of the aquatic resources of the United States.

[76 FR 46156, Aug. 1, 2011, as amended at 84 FR 44786, Aug. 27, 2019]
