cfr/title-48-Federal-Acquisition-Regulations-System/chapter-2-Defense-Acquisition-Regulations-System-Department-Defense/subchapter-H-Clauses-Forms/part-252-Solicitation-Provisions-Contract-Clauses/subpart-252.2-Text-Provisions-Clauses/section-252.244-7000.md, before:

##### 252.244-7000 Subcontracts for Commercial Items. #####

As prescribed in 244.403, use the following clause:

Subcontracts for Commercial Items (DEC 2022)

(a) The Contractor is not required to flow down the terms of any Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (DFARS) clause in subcontracts for commercial items at any tier under this contract, unless so specified in the particular clause.

(b) While not required, the Contractor may flow down to subcontracts for commercial items a minimal number of additional clauses necessary to satisfy its contractual obligation.

(c)(1) In accordance with 10 U.S.C. 3457(c), the Contractor shall treat as commercial items any items valued at less than $10,000 per item that were purchased by the Contractor for use in the performance of multiple contracts with the Department of Defense and other parties and are not identifiable to any particular contract when purchased.

(2) The Contractor shall ensure that any items to be used in performance of this contract, that are treated as commercial items pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this clause, meet all terms and conditions of this contract that are applicable to commercial items in accordance with the clause at Federal Acquisition Regulation 52.244-6 and paragraph (a) of this clause.

(d) The Contractor shall include the terms of this clause, including this paragraph (d), in subcontracts awarded under this contract, including subcontracts for the acquisition of commercial items.

(End of clause)[78 FR 37991, June 25, 2013, as amended at 85 FR 60921, Sept. 29, 2020; 85 FR 65734, Oct. 16, 2020; 86 FR 3836, Jan. 15, 2021; 87 FR 76998, Dec. 16, 2022]

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2023-01-31 issue
Title: 14: Aeronautics and Space - Sections changed: 4
Title: 27: Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms - Sections changed: 3
Title: 18: Conservation of Power and Water Resources - Sections changed: 6
Title: 48: Federal Acquisition Regulations System - Sections changed: 212
Title: 21: Food and Drugs - Sections changed: 1
Title: 30: Mineral Resources - Sections changed: 264
Title: 40: Protection of Environment - Sections changed: 36
Title: 47: Telecommunication - Sections changed: 6
Title: 50: Wildlife and Fisheries - Sections changed: 1

cfr/title-48-Federal-Acquisition-Regulations-System/chapter-2-Defense-Acquisition-Regulations-System-Department-Defense/subchapter-H-Clauses-Forms/part-252-Solicitation-Provisions-Contract-Clauses/subpart-252.2-Text-Provisions-Clauses/section-252.244-7000.md, after:

##### 252.244-7000 Subcontracts for Commercial Products or Commercial Services. #####

As prescribed in 244.403, use the following clause:

Subcontracts for Commercial Products or Commercial Services (JAN 2023)

(a) The Contractor is not required to flow down the terms of any Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (DFARS) clause in subcontracts for commercial products or commercial services at any tier under this contract, unless so specified in the particular clause.

(b) While not required, the Contractor may flow down to subcontracts for commercial products or commercial services a minimal number of additional clauses necessary to satisfy its contractual obligation.

(c)(1) In accordance with 10 U.S.C. 3457(c), the Contractor shall treat as commercial products or commercial services any items valued at less than $10,000 per item that were purchased by the Contractor for use in the performance of multiple contracts with the Department of Defense and other parties and are not identifiable to any particular contract when purchased.

(2) The Contractor shall ensure that any items to be used in performance of this contract, that are treated as commercial products or commercial services pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this clause, meet all terms and conditions of this contract that are applicable to commercial products or commercial services in accordance with the clause at Federal Acquisition Regulation 52.244-6 and paragraph (a) of this clause.

(d) The Contractor shall include the terms of this clause, including this paragraph (d), in subcontracts awarded under this contract, including subcontracts for the acquisition of commercial products or commercial services.

(End of clause)[78 FR 37991, June 25, 2013, as amended at 85 FR 60921, Sept. 29, 2020; 85 FR 65734, Oct. 16, 2020; 86 FR 3836, Jan. 15, 2021; 87 FR 76998, Dec. 16, 2022; 88 FR 6596, Jan. 31, 2023]
