##### § 5.36 Name and address. #####

(a) *“Bottled by”.* (1) On labels of domestic distilled spirits there shall be stated the phrase “bottled by”, “packed by”, or “filled by”, immediately followed by the name (or trade name) of the bottler and the place where such distilled spirits are bottled. If the bottler is the actual bona fide operator of more than one distilled spirits plant engaged in bottling operations, there may, in addition, be stated immediately following the name (or trade name) of such bottler the addresses of such other plants.

(2) Where distilled spirits are bottled by or for the distiller thereof, there may be stated, in lieu of the phrase “bottled by”, “packed by”, or “filled by”, followed by the bottler's name (or trade name) and address, the phrase “distilled by”, followed by the name, or the trade name under which the particular spirits were distilled, or (except in the case of distilled spirits labeled as bottled in bond) any trade name shown on the distiller's permit (covering the premises where the particular spirits were distilled), and the address (or addresses) of the distiller.

(3) Where “straight whiskies” of the same type which have been produced in the same State by two or more different distillers are combined (either at time of bottling or at a warehouseman's bonded premises for further storage) and subsequently bottled and labeled as “straight whisky,” such “straight whisky” shall be labeled in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section. Where such “straight whisky” is bottled by or for the distillers thereof, there may be stated on the label, in lieu of the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the phraise “distilled by,” followed by the names (or trade names) of the different distillers who distilled a portion of the “straight whisky,” the addresses of the distilleries where the “straight whisky” was distilled, and the percentage of “straight whisky” distilled by each distiller (with a tolerance of plus or minus 2 percent). In the case where “straight whisky” is made up of a mixture of “straight whiskies” of the same type from two or more different distilleries of the same proprietor located within the same State, and where the “straight whisky” is bottled by or for the proprietor thereof, such “straight whisky” may be labeled, in lieu of the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of the this section, with the phrase “distilled by” followed by the name (or trade name) of the proprietor and the addresses of the different distilleries which distilled a portion of the “straight whisky.”

(4) Where distilled spirits are bottled by or for the rectifier thereof, there may be stated, in lieu of the phrase “bottled by”, “packed by”, or “filled by”, followed by the bottler's name (or trade name) and address, the phrases “blended by”, “made by”, “prepared by”, “manufactured by”, or “produced by” (whichever may be appropriate to the act of rectification involved) followed by the name (or trade name), and the address (or addresses) of the rectifier.

(5) In addition to the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this paragraph, the labels of bottled in bond spirits shall bear the real name of the distillery or the trade name under which the distillery produced and warehoused the spirits, the number of the plant in which produced and the number of the plant in which bottled.

(6) The label may state the address of the proprietor's principal place of business in lieu of the place where the bottling, distilling or rectification operation occurred, if the address where the operation occurred is indicated by printing, coding, or other markings, on the label or on the bottle.

(b) *“Imported by”.* (1) On labels of imported distilled spirits, bottled prior to importation, there shall be stated the words “imported by”, “imported exclusively by”, or a similar appropriate phrase, and immediately thereafter the name of the importer, or exclusive agent, or sole distributor, or other person responsible for the importation, together with the principal place of business in the United States of such person.

(2) On labels of imported distilled spirits bottled after importation there shall be stated:

(i) The name of the bottler and place where bottled, immediately preceded by the words “bottled by”, “packed by”, or “filled by”; or

(ii) The name of the bottler and place where bottled, immediately preceded by the words “bottled by”, “packed by”, or “filled by” and in conjunction therewith the name and address of the person responsible for the importation, in the manner prescribed in paragraph (b)(1) of this section; or

(iii) The name and principal place of business in the United States of the person responsible for the importation, if the spirits are bottled for such person, immediately preceded by the phrase “imported by and bottled (packed), (filled) in the United States for” (or a similar appropriate phrase); or,

(iv) In the case of imported distilled spirits bottled after importation by the person responsible for the importation, the words “imported and bottled (packed), (filled) by”, “imported and bottled (packed), (filled) exclusively by”, or a similar appropriate phrase, and immediately thereafter the name of such person and the address of the place where bottled or the address of such person's principal place of business.

(c) *Post office address.* The “place” stated shall be the post office address, except that the street address may be omitted. No additional places or addresses shall be stated for the same person, firm or corporation, unless (1) such person or retailer is actively engaged in the conduct of an additional bona fide and actual alcoholic beverage business at such additional place or address, and (2) the label also contains in direct conjunction therewith, appropriate descriptive material indicating the function occurring at such additional place or address.

(d) *State of distillation.* Except in the case of “light whisky”, “blended light whisky”, “blended whisky”, “a blend of straight whiskies”, or “spirit whisky”, the State of distillation shall be shown on the label of any whisky produced in the United States if the whisky is not distilled in the State given in the address on the brand label. The appropriate TTB officer may, however, require the State of distillation to be shown on the label or he may permit such other labeling as may be necessary to negate any misleading or deceptive impression which might be created as to the actual State of distillation. In the case of “light whisky”, as defined in § 5.22(b)(3), the State of distillation shall not appear in any manner on any label, when the appropriate TTB officer finds such State is associated by consumers with an American type whisky, except as a part of a name and address as set forth in paragraph (a) of this section.

(e) *Cross reference - country of origin statement.* For U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) rules regarding country of origin marking requirements, see the CBP regulations at 19 CFR parts 102 and 134.

(f) *Trade names.* The trade name of any permittee appearing on any label must be identical to the trade name listed on the permittee's basic permit.

(26 U.S.C. 7805 (68A Stat. 917, as amended); 27 U.S.C. 205 (49 Stat. 981, as amended))[T.D. 7020, 34 FR 20637, Dec. 30, 1969, as amended by T.D. ATF-62, 44 FR 71621, Dec. 11, 1979; T.D. ATF-198, 50 FR 8464, Mar. 1, 1985; T.D. ATF-259, 52 FR 41423, Oct. 28, 1987; T.D. ATF-260, 52 FR 42101, Nov. 3, 1987; T.D. ATF-425, 65 FR 11891, Mar. 7, 2000; T.D. TTB-158, 85 FR 18723, Apr. 2, 2020]