##### ยง 655.131 Association filing requirements. #####

If an association files an *Application for Temporary Employment Certification,* in addition to complying with all the assurances, guarantees, and other requirements contained in this subpart and in part 653, subpart F, of this chapter, the following requirements also apply.

(a) *Individual applications.* Associations of agricultural employers may file an *Application for Temporary Employment Certification* for H-2A workers as a sole employer, a joint employer, or agent. The association must identify in the *Application for Temporary Employment Certification* in what capacity it is filing. The association must retain documentation substantiating the employer or agency status of the association and be prepared to submit such documentation in response to a Notice of Deficiency from the CO prior to issuing a Final Determination, or in the event of an audit.

(b) *Master applications.* An association may file a master application on behalf of its employer-members. The master application is available only when the association is filing as a joint employer. An association may submit a master application covering the same occupation or comparable work available with a number of its employer-members in multiple areas of intended employment, just as though all of the covered employers were in fact a single employer, as long as a single date of need is provided for all workers requested by the *Application for Temporary Employment Certification* and all employer-members are located in no more than two contiguous States. The association must identify on the *Application for Temporary Employment Certification* by name, address, total number of workers needed, and the crops and agricultural work to be performed, each employer that will employ H-2A workers. The association, as appropriate, will receive a certified *Application for Temporary Employment Certification* that can be copied and sent to the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) with each employer-member's petition.