##### ยง 72.10 General requirements. #####

Any eligible jurisdiction or discretionary applicant desiring to apply for a grant must develop, submit and have approved a local Action Program. The Action Program must be submitted to the appropriate National Park Service Regional Office where it will be evaluated and approved. This is a necessary requirement which must precede the awarding of any rehabilitation or innovation grant. Until January 1, 1981, this requirement may be satisfied with an approved Preliminary Action Program. The Preliminary Action Program must include a firm commitment by the local government to complete and adopt a full Action Program within one year of approval of the Preliminary Action Program. After January 1, 1981, no rehabilitation or innovation grant will be awarded without an approved Recovery Action Program on file with the appropriate Regional Office. Communities are required to submit four (4) copies of the Action Program. Regional Offices and their States are:

Northeast Region Federal Office Bldg. Room 9310, 600 Arch Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19106. Connecticut, Delaware, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Vermont, Virginia, West Virginia, and the District of Columbia. Southeast Region 75 Spring Street, Atlanta, Georgia 30303. Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Mississippi, North Carolina, Puerto Rico, South Carolina, Tennessee, and the Virgin Islands. Lake Central Region Federal Building, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48107. Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Minnesota, Ohio, and Wisconsin. Mid-Continent Region Denver Federal Center, P.O. Box 25387, Denver, Colorado 80225. Colorado, Iowa, Kansas, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, North Dakota, South Dakota, Utah, and Wyoming. Pacific Southwest Region 450 Golden Gate Avenue, San Francisco, California 94102. American Samoa, Arizona, California, Guam, Hawaii, and Nevada. Northwest Region Federal Building, 914 Second Avenue, Seattle, Washington 98174. Idaho, Oregon and Washington. South Central Region 5000 Marble Avenue, N.E., Albuquerque, New Mexico 87110. Arkansas, Louisiana, New Mexico, Oklahoma, and Texas. Alaska Area Office 1011 East Tudor, Suite 297, Anchorage, Alaska 99503.(Sec. 1007(a) and (b) of Title X National Parks and Recreation Act of 1978, Pub. L. 95-625, (16 U.S.C. 2506); sec. 2 of Reorganization Plan No. 3 of 1950 (64 Stat. 1262))[45 FR 54335, Aug. 15, 1980. Redesignated at 46 FR 34329, July 1, 1981; and correctly redesignated at 46 FR 43045, Aug. 26, 1981]