cfr/title-41-Public-Contracts-Property-Management/subtitle-F-Federal-Travel-Regulation-System/chapter-301-Temporary-Duty-TDY-Travel-Allowances/subchapter-D-Agency-Responsibilities/part-301-73-Travel-Programs/subpart-A-General-Rules/section-301-73.1.md, before:

##### § 301-73.1 What does the Federal travel management program include? #####

Link to an amendment published at 89 FR 77027, Sept. 20, 2024.

The Federal travel management program includes—

(a) A travel authorization and claim system that implements the related requirements of the Federal Travel Regulation. (*See* §§ 301-2.1 and 301-52.3 and part 301-71 of this chapter for those requirements);

(b) A TMS that provides reservation and ticketing support and management reports on reservation and ticketing activities. (*See* § 301-73.106 for specific services that should be provided by a TMS);

(c) A Travel payment system for paying travel service providers in accordance to §§ 301-73.300 and 301-73.301 of this chapter;

(d) Contracts and similar arrangements, with transportation and lodging providers (e.g., Government-contract air carriers, rental car companies, trains, hotels (e.g., FedRooms® properties), etc.) that give preferential rates and other benefits to Federal travelers on official business; and

(e) A Travel Management Reporting System that covers financial and other travel characteristics required by the biennial Travel Survey (*see* §§ 300-70.1 through 300-70.4 of this title).

Note to § 301-73.1:

The E-Gov Travel Service (ETS) fulfills the requirements of paragraphs (a), (b), and (e) of this section.

[FTR Amdt. 2003-07, 68 FR 71030, Dec. 22, 2003, as amended by FTR Amdt. 2007-05, 72 FR 61540, Oct. 31, 2007; 85 FR 39849, July 2, 2020]

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2024-10-21 issue
Title: 14: Aeronautics and Space - Sections changed: 7
Title: 16: Commercial Practices - Sections changed: 9
Title: 10: Energy - Sections changed: 2
Title: 26: Internal Revenue - Sections changed: 1
Title: 40: Protection of Environment - Sections changed: 5
Title: 41: Public Contracts and Property Management - Sections changed: 44
Title: 42: Public Health - Sections changed: 1
Title: 47: Telecommunication - Sections changed: 6
Title: 49: Transportation - Sections changed: 4

cfr/title-41-Public-Contracts-Property-Management/subtitle-F-Federal-Travel-Regulation-System/chapter-301-Temporary-Duty-TDY-Travel-Allowances/subchapter-D-Agency-Responsibilities/part-301-73-Travel-Programs/subpart-A-General-Rules/section-301-73.1.md, after:

##### § 301-73.1 What does the Federal travel management program include? #####

The Federal travel management program includes—

(a) A travel authorization and claim system that implements the related requirements of the Federal Travel Regulation. (*See* §§ 301-2.1 and 301-52.3 and part 301-71 of this chapter for those requirements);

(b) A TMS that provides reservation and ticketing support and management reports on reservation and ticketing activities. (*See* § 301-73.106 for specific services that should be provided by a TMS);

(c) A Travel payment system for paying travel service providers in accordance to §§ 301-73.300 and 301-73.301 of this chapter;

(d) Contracts and similar arrangements, with transportation and lodging providers (e.g., Government-contract air carriers, rental car companies, trains, hotels (e.g., FedRooms® properties), etc.) that give preferential rates and other benefits to Federal travelers on official business; and

(e) A Travel Management Reporting System that covers financial and other travel characteristics required by the Agency Payments for Employee Travel, Transportation, and Relocation annual report (see §§ 300-70.1 through 300-70.4 of this title).

Note to § 301-73.1:

The E-Gov Travel Service (ETS) fulfills the requirements of paragraphs (a), (b), and (e) of this section.

[FTR Amdt. 2003-07, 68 FR 71030, Dec. 22, 2003, as amended by FTR Amdt. 2007-05, 72 FR 61540, Oct. 31, 2007; 85 FR 39849, July 2, 2020; FTR Case 2023-03, 89 FR 77027, Sept. 20, 2024]
