##### § 390.454 Capital restoration plans. #####

(a) *Schedule for filing plan* - (1) *In general.* A State savings association shall file a written capital restoration plan with the appropriate Regional Office within 45 days of the date that the State savings association receives notice or is deemed to have notice that the State savings association is undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized, or critically undercapitalized, unless the FDIC notifies the State savings association in writing that the plan is to be filed within a different period. An adequately capitalized State savings association that has been required pursuant to § 390.453(c) to comply with supervisory actions as if the State savings association were undercapitalized is not required to submit a capital restoration plan solely by virtue of the reclassification.

(2) *Additional capital restoration plans.* Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(1) of this section, a State savings association that has already submitted and is operating under a capital restoration plan approved under section 38 and this subpart is not required to submit an additional capital restoration plan based on a revised calculation of its capital measures or a reclassification of the institution under § 390.453(c) unless the FDIC notifies the State savings association that it must submit a new or revised capital plan. A State savings association that is notified that it must submit a new or revised capital restoration plan shall file the plan in writing with the appropriate Regional Office within 45 days of receiving such notice, unless the FDIC notifies the State savings association in writing that the plan is to be filed within a different period.

(b) *Contents of plan.* All financial data submitted in connection with a capital restoration plan shall be prepared in accordance with the instructions provided on the TFR, or Consolidated Reports of Condition or Income (“Call Report”), as applicable, unless the FDIC instructs otherwise. The capital restoration plan shall include all of the information required to be filed under section 38(e)(2) of the FDI Act. A State savings association that is required to submit a capital restoration plan as the result of a reclassification of the State savings association pursuant to § 390.453(c) shall include a description of the steps the State savings association will take to correct the unsafe or unsound condition or practice. No plan shall be accepted unless it includes any performance guarantee described in section 38(e)(2)(C) of the FDI Act by each company that controls the State savings association.

(c) *Review of capital restoration plans.* Within 60 days after receiving a capital restoration plan under this subpart, the FDIC shall provide written notice to the State savings association of whether the plan has been approved. The FDIC may extend the time within which notice regarding approval of a plan shall be provided.

(d) *Disapproval of capital plan.* If a capital restoration plan is not approved by the FDIC, the State savings association shall submit a revised capital restoration plan, when directed to do so, within the time specified by the FDIC. Upon receiving notice that its capital restoration plan has not been approved, any undercapitalized State savings association (as defined in § 390.453(b)(3)) shall be subject to all of the provisions of section 38 and this section applicable to significantly undercapitalized institutions. These provisions shall be applicable until such time as a new or revised capital restoration plan submitted by the State savings association has been approved by the FDIC.

(e) *Failure to submit a capital restoration plan.* A State savings association that is undercapitalized (as defined in § 390.453(b)(3)) and that fails to submit a written capital restoration plan within the period provided in this section shall, upon the expiration of that period, be subject to all of the provisions of section 38 and this subpart applicable to significantly undercapitalized institutions.

(f) *Failure to implement a capital restoration plan.* Any undercapitalized State savings association that fails in any material respect to implement a capital restoration plan shall be subject to all of the provisions of section 38 and this subpart applicable to significantly undercapitalized institutions.

(g) *Amendment of capital plan.* A State savings association that has filed an approved capital restoration plan may, after prior written notice to and approval by the FDIC, amend the plan to reflect a change in circumstance. Until such time as a proposed amendment has been approved, the State savings association shall implement the capital restoration plan as approved prior to the proposed amendment.

(h) [Reserved]

(i) *Performance guarantee by companies that control a State savings association* - (1) *Limitation on liability* - (i) *Amount limitation.* The aggregate liability under the guarantee provided under section 38 and this subpart for all companies that control a specific State savings association that is required to submit a capital restoration plan under this subpart shall be limited to the lesser of:

(A) An amount equal to 5.0 percent of the State savings association's total assets at the time the State savings association was notified or deemed to have notice that the State savings association was undercapitalized; or

(B) The amount necessary to restore the relevant capital measures of the State savings association to the levels required for the State savings association to be classified as adequately capitalized, as those capital measures and levels are defined at the time that the State savings association initially fails to comply with a capital restoration plan under this subpart.

(ii) *Limit on duration.* The guarantee and limit of liability under section 38 and this subpart shall expire after the FDIC notifies the State savings association that it has remained adequately capitalized for each of four consecutive calendar quarters. The expiration or fulfillment by a company of a guarantee of a capital restoration plan shall not limit the liability of the company under any guarantee required or provided in connection with any capital restoration plan filed by the same State savings association after expiration of the first guarantee.

(iii) *Collection on guarantee.* Each company that controls a given State savings association shall be jointly and severally liable for the guarantee for such State savings association as required under section 38 and this subpart, and the FDIC may require and collect payment of the full amount of that guarantee from any or all of the companies issuing the guarantee.

(2) *Failure to provide guarantee.* In the event that a State savings association that is controlled by any company submits a capital restoration plan that does not contain the guarantee required under section 38(e)(2) of the FDI Act, the State savings association shall, upon submission of the plan, be subject to the provisions of section 38 and this subpart are applicable to State savings associations that have not submitted an acceptable capital restoration plan.

(3) *Failure to perform guarantee.* Failure by any company that controls a State savings association to perform fully its guarantee of any capital plan shall constitute a material failure to implement the plan for purposes of section 38(f) of the FDI Act. Upon such failure, the State savings association shall be subject to the provisions of section 38 and this subpart that are applicable to State savings associations that have failed in a material respect to implement a capital restoration plan.