##### § 1.250-1 Introduction. #####

(a) *Overview.* Sections 1.250(a)-1 and 1.250(b)-1 through 1.250(b)-6 provide rules to determine a domestic corporation's section 250 deduction. Section 1.250(a)-1 provides rules to determine the amount of a domestic corporation's deduction for foreign-derived intangible income and global intangible low-taxed income. Section 1.250(b)-1 provides general rules and definitions regarding the computation of foreign-derived intangible income. Section 1.250(b)-2 provides rules for determining a domestic corporation's qualified business asset investment. Section 1.250(b)-3 provides general rules and definitions regarding the determination of gross foreign-derived deduction eligible income. Section 1.250(b)-4 provides rules regarding the determination of gross foreign-derived deduction eligible income from the sale of property. Section 1.250(b)-5 provides rules regarding the determination of gross foreign-derived deduction eligible income from the provision of a service. Section 1.250(b)-6 provides rules regarding the sale of property or provision of a service to a related party.

(b) *Applicability dates.* Except as provided in the next sentence, §§ 1.250(a)-1 and 1.250(b)-1 through 1.250(b)-6 apply to taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2021. Section 1.250(b)-2(h) applies to taxable years ending on or after March 4, 2019. However, taxpayers may choose to apply §§ 1.250(a)-1 and 1.250(b)-1 through 1.250(b)-6 for taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2018, and before January 1, 2021, provided they apply the regulations in their entirety (other than § 1.250(b)-3(f) and the applicable provisions in § 1.250(b)-4(d)(3) or § 1.250(b)-5(e)(4)), but once applied, taxpayers must apply the final regulations for all subsequent taxable years beginning before January 1, 2021.

[T.D. 9901, 85 FR 43080, July 15, 2020, as amended by 85 FR 68249, Oct. 28, 2020]