##### § 1.245A-10 Examples. #####

(a) *Scope.* This section provides examples illustrating the application of §§ 1.245A-6 through 1.245A-9.

(b) *Presumed facts.* For purposes of the examples in the section, except as otherwise stated, the following facts are presumed:

(1) US1 and US2 are both domestic corporations that have calendar taxable years.

(2) CFC1, CFC2, CFC3, and CFC4 are all SFCs and CFCs that have taxable years ending November 30.

(3) Each entity uses the U.S. dollar as its functional currency.

(4) There are no items of deduction or loss attributable to an item of specified property.

(5) Absent the application of § 1.245A-5, any dividends received by US1 from CFC1 would meet the requirements to qualify for the section 245A deduction.

(6) All dispositions of items of specified property by an SFC during a disqualified period of the SFC to a related party give rise to an extraordinary disposition.

(7) None of the CFCs have a deficit subject to § 1.381(c)(2)-1(a)(5), and none of the CFCs are engaged in the conduct of a trade or business in the United States (and therefore none of the CFCs have ECTI).

(8) There is no previously taxed earnings and profits account with respect to any CFC for purposes of section 959. In addition, each hybrid deduction account with respect to a share of stock of a CFC has a zero balance at all times. Further, there is no extraordinary disposition account with respect to any CFC.

(9) Under § 1.245A-11(b), taxpayers choose to apply §§ 1.245A-6 through 1.245A-11 to the relevant taxable years.

(c) *Examples*—(1) *Example 1. Reduction of disqualified basis under rule for simple cases by reason of dividend paid out of extraordinary disposition account*—(i) *Facts.* US1 owns 100% of the single class of stock of CFC1 and CFC2. On November 30, 2018, in a transaction that is an extraordinary disposition, CFC1 sells two items of specified property, Item 1 and Item 2, to CFC2 in exchange for $150x of cash (the “Disqualified Transfer”). Item 1 is sold for $90x and Item 2 is sold for $60x. Item 1 and Item 2 each has a basis of $0 in the hands of CFC1 immediately before the Disqualified Transfer, and therefore CFC1 recognizes $150x of gain as a result of the Disqualified Transfer ($150×−$0). After the Disqualified Transfer, CFC2's only assets are Item 1 and Item 2. On November 30, 2018, and thus during US1's taxable year ending December 31, 2018, CFC1 distributes $150x of cash to US1, and all of the distribution is characterized as a dividend under section 301(c)(1) and treated as a distribution out of earnings and profits described in section 959(c)(3). For CFC1's taxable year ending on November 30, 2018, CFC1 has $160x of earnings and profits described in section 959(c)(3), without regard to any distributions during the taxable year. CFC2 continues to hold Item 1 and Item 2. Lastly, because the conditions of § 1.245A-6(b)(1) and (2) are satisfied for US1's 2018 taxable year, US1 chooses to apply § 1.245A-7 (rules for simple cases) in lieu of § 1.245A-8 (rules for complex cases) for that taxable year.

(ii) *Analysis*—(A) *Application of §§ 1.245A-5 and 1.951A-2 as a result of the Disqualified Transfer.* As a result of the Disqualified Transfer, under § 1.951A-2(c)(5), Item 1 has disqualified basis of $90x, and Item 2 has disqualified basis of $60x. In addition, as a result of the Disqualified Transfer, under § 1.245A-5(c)(3)(i)(A), US1 has an extraordinary disposition account with respect to CFC1 with an initial balance of $150x. Under § 1.245A-5(c)(2)(i), $10x of the dividend is considered paid out of non-extraordinary disposition E&P of CFC1 with respect to US1, and $140x of the dividend is considered paid out of US1's extraordinary disposition account with respect to CFC1 to the extent of the balance of the extraordinary disposition account ($150x). Thus, the dividend of $150x is an extraordinary disposition amount, within the meaning of § 1.245A-5(c)(1), to the extent of $140x. As a result, the balance of the extraordinary disposition account is reduced to $10x ($150×−$140x).

(B) *Correspondence requirement.* Under § 1.245A-9(b)(1), each of Item 1 and Item 2 corresponds to US1's extraordinary disposition account with respect to CFC1, because as a result of the Disqualified Transfer CFC1 recognized gain with respect to Item 1 and Item 2, and the gain was taken into account in determining the initial balance of US1's extraordinary disposition account with respect to CFC1.

(C) *Reduction of disqualified basis of Item 1.* Because Item 1 corresponds to US1's extraordinary disposition account, the disqualified basis of Item 1 is reduced pursuant to § 1.245A-7(b)(1) by reason of US1's $140x extraordinary disposition amount for US1's 2018 taxable year. Paragraphs (c)(2)(ii)(C)(*1*) through (*3*) of this section describe the determinations pursuant to § 1.245A-7(b)(1).

(*1*) To determine the reduction to the disqualified basis of Item 1, the disqualified basis of Item 1, as well as the disqualified basis of Item 2, must be determined as of the date described in § 1.245A-9(b)(2)(i) (and before the application of § 1.245A-7(b)(1)). *See* § 1.245A-7(b)(1)(ii). For each of Item 1 and Item 2, that date is December 1, 2018. December 1, 2018, is the first day of the taxable year of CFC2 (the CFC that holds Item 1 and Item 2) beginning on December 1, 2018, which is the taxable year of CFC2 that includes December 31, 2018, the date on which US1's 2018 taxable year ends. *See* § 1.245A-9(b)(2)(i).

(*2*) Pursuant to § 1.245A-7(b)(1), the disqualified basis of Item 1 is reduced by $84x, computed as the product of—

(*i*) $140x, the extraordinary disposition amount; and

(*ii*) A fraction, the numerator of which is $90x (the disqualified basis of Item 1 on December 1, 2018, and before the application of § 1.245A-7(b)(1)), and the denominator of which is $150x (the disqualified basis of Item 1, $90x, plus the disqualified basis of Item 2, $60x, in each case determined on December 1, 2018, and before the application of § 1.245A-7(b)(1)). *See* § 1.245A-7(b)(1).

(*3*) The $84x reduction to the disqualified basis of Item 1 occurs on December 1, 2018, the date on which the disqualified basis of Item 1 is determined for purposes of determining the reduction pursuant to § 1.245A-7(b)(1). *See* § 1.245A-9(b)(2)(ii).

(D) *Reduction of disqualified basis of Item 2.* For reasons similar to those described in paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(C) of this section, on December 1, 2018, the disqualified basis of Item 2 is reduced by $56x, the amount equal to the product of $140x, the extraordinary disposition amount, and a fraction, the numerator of which is $60x (the disqualified basis of Item 2 on December 1, 2018, and before the application of § 1.245A-7(b)(1)), and the denominator of which is $150x (the disqualified basis of Item 1, $90x, plus the disqualified basis of Item 2, $60x, in each case determined on December 1, 2018, and before the application of § 1.245A-7(b)(1)).

(2) *Example 2. Basis benefit amount and impact on reduction to disqualified basis under rule for complex cases*—(i) *Facts.* The facts are the same as in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section (*Example 1*) (and the results are the same as in paragraph (c)(1)(ii)(A) of this section), except that, on December 1, 2018, CFC2 sells Item 1 for $90x of cash to an individual that is not a related party with respect to US1 or CFC2 (such transaction, the “Sale,” and such individual, “Individual A”). At the time of the Sale, CFC2's basis in Item 1 is $90x (all of which is disqualified basis, as described in § 1.951A-3(h)(2)(ii)(A)). CFC2 takes into the account the disqualified basis of Item 1 for purposes of determining the amount of gain recognized on the Sale, which is $0 ($90x−$90x); but for the disqualified basis, CFC2 would have had $90x of gain that would have been taken into account in computing its tested income. As a result of the Sale, the condition of § 1.245A-6(b)(2) is not satisfied, because on at least one day of CFC2's taxable year beginning on December 1, 2018 (which begins within US1's 2018 taxable year) CFC2 does not hold Item 1. *See* § 1.245A-6(b)(2)(ii)(C)(*1*). US1 therefore applies § 1.245A-8 (rules for complex cases) for its 2018 taxable year. *See* § 1.245A-6(b).

(ii) *Analysis*—(A) *Ownership requirement.* With respect to each of Item 1 and Item 2, the ownership requirement of § 1.245A-8(b)(3)(i) is satisfied for US1's 2018 taxable year. This is because on at least one day that falls within US1's 2018 taxable year, each of Item 1 and Item 2 is held by CFC2, and US1 directly owns all of the stock of CFC2 throughout such taxable year (and thus, for purposes of applying § 1.245A-8(b)(3)(i), US1 owns at least 10% of the interests of CFC2 on at least one day that falls within such taxable year). *See* § 1.245A-8(b)(3).

(B) *Basis benefit amount with respect to Item 1 as a result of the Sale.* Under § 1.245A-8(b)(4)(i), US1 has a basis benefit account with respect to its extraordinary disposition account with respect to CFC1. As described in paragraphs (c)(2)(ii)(B)(*1*) through (*3*) of this section, the balance of the basis benefit account (which is initially zero) is, on December 31, 2018, increased by $90x, the basis benefit amount with respect to Item 1 and assigned to US1's 2018 taxable year.

(*1*) By reason of the Sale, for CFC2's taxable year beginning December 1, 2018, and ending November 30, 2019, the entire $90x of disqualified basis of Item 1 is taken into account for U.S. tax purposes by CFC2 and, as a result, reduces CFC2's tested income or increases CFC2's tested loss. Accordingly, for such taxable year, there is a $90x basis benefit amount with respect to Item 1. *See* § 1.245A-8(b)(4)(ii)(A). The result would be the same if the Sale were to a related person and thus, pursuant to § 1.951A-3(h)(2)(ii)(B)(*1*)(*ii*), no portion of the $90x of disqualified basis were eliminated or reduced by reason of the Sale. *See* § 1.245A-8(b)(4)(ii)(B).

(*2*) The $90x basis benefit amount with respect to Item 1 is assigned to US1's 2018 taxable year. This is because the ownership requirement of § 1.245A-8(b)(3)(i) is satisfied with respect to Item 1 for US1's 2018 taxable year, and the basis benefit amount occurs in CFC2's taxable year beginning December 1, 2018, a taxable year of CFC2 that begins within US1's 2018 taxable year (and, but for § 1.245A-8(b)(4)(iii)(A)(*2*)(*ii*), the basis benefit amount would not be assigned to a taxable year of US1, such as the taxable year of US1 beginning January 1, 2019, given that, as result of the Sale, the ownership requirement of § 1.245A-8(b)(3)(i) would not be satisfied with respect to Item 1 for such taxable year). *See* § 1.245A-8(b)(4)(iii)(A).

(*3*) On December 31, 2018 (the last day of US1's 2018 taxable year), US1's basis benefit account with respect to its extraordinary disposition account with respect to CFC1 is increased by $90x, the $90x basis benefit amount with respect to Item 1 and assigned to US1's 2018 taxable year. The basis benefit account is increased by such amount because Item 1 corresponds to US1's extraordinary disposition account with respect to CFC1, and the extraordinary disposition ownership percentage applicable to such extraordinary disposition account is 100. *See* § 1.245A-8(b)(4)(i)(A).

(C) *Basis benefit amount limitation on reduction to disqualified basis.* By reason of US1's $140x extraordinary disposition amount for US1's 2018 taxable year, the disqualified basis of Item 1 is reduced by $30x, and the disqualified basis of Item 2 is reduced by $20x, pursuant to § 1.245A-8(b)(1). *See* § 1.245A-8(b). Paragraphs (c)(2)(ii)(C)(*1*) through (*4*) of this section describe the determinations pursuant to § 1.245A-8(b)(1).

(*1*) For purposes of determining the reduction to the disqualified bases of Item 1 and Item 2, the disqualified bases of the Items are determined on December 1, 2018 (and before the application of § 1.245A-8(b)(1)). *See* § 1.245A-8(b)(1)(ii). The disqualified bases of the Items are determined on December 1, 2018, because that date is the first day of the taxable year of CFC2 beginning on December 1, 2018, which is the taxable year of CFC2 (the specified property owner of each of Item 1 and Item 2) that includes December 31, 2018, the date on which US1's 2018 taxable year ends. *See* § 1.245A-8(b)(2)(i). For purposes of applying §§ 1.245A-8(b)(1) and § 1.245A-9(b)(2) for US1's 2018 taxable year, CFC2 is the specified property owner of each of Item 1 and Item 2 because, on at least one day of CFC2's taxable year that includes the date on which US1's 2018 taxable year ends (that is, on at least one day of CFC2's taxable year beginning December 1, 2018), CFC2 held the Item. *See* § 1.245A-9(b)(2)(iii). CFC2 is the specified property owner of Item 1 even though Individual A also held Item 1 during Individual A's taxable year that includes the date on which US1's 2018 taxable year ends because CFC2 held Item 1 on an earlier date than Individual A. *See* § 1.245A-9(b)(2)(iii).

(*2*) Pursuant to § 1.245A-8(b)(1), the disqualified basis of Item 1 is reduced by $30x, computed as the product of—

(*i*) $50x, the excess of the extraordinary disposition amount ($140x) over the balance of the basis benefit account with respect to US1's extraordinary disposition with respect to CFC1 ($90x); and

(*ii*) A fraction, the numerator of which is $90x (the disqualified basis of Item 1 on December 1, 2018, and before the application of § 1.245A-8(b)(1)), and the denominator of which is $150x (the disqualified basis of Item 1, $90x, plus the disqualified basis of Item 2, $60x, in each case determined on December 1, 2018, and before the application of § 1.245A-8(b)(1)). *See* paragraph § 1.245A-8(b)(1).

(*3*) Pursuant to § 1.245A-8(b)(1), the disqualified basis of Item 2 is reduced by $20x, computed as the product of—

(*i*) $50x, the excess of the extraordinary disposition amount ($140x) over the balance of the basis benefit account with respect to US1's extraordinary disposition with respect to CFC1 ($90x); and

(*ii*) A fraction, the numerator of which is $60x (the disqualified basis of Item 2 on December 1, 2018, and before the application of paragraph (b)(1) of this section), and the denominator of which is $150x (the disqualified basis of Item 1, $90x, plus the disqualified basis of Item 2, $60x, in each case determined on December 1, 2018, and before the application of § 1.245A-8(b)(1)). *See* § 1.245A-8(b)(1).

(*4*) The $30x and $20x reductions to the disqualified bases of Item 1 and Item 2, respectively, occur on December 1, 2018, the date on which the disqualified bases of the Items are determined for purposes of determining the reductions pursuant to § 1.245A-8(b)(1). *See* § 1.245A-9(b)(2)(ii).

(D) *Reduction of basis benefit account.* The balance of the basis benefit account with respect to US1's extraordinary disposition account with respect to CFC1 is decreased by $90x, the amount by which, for CFC2's taxable year beginning December 1, 2018, the disqualified bases of Item 1 and Item 2 would have been reduced pursuant to § 1.245A-8(b)(1) but for the $90x balance of the basis benefit account. *See* § 1.245A-8(b)(4)(i)(B). The reduction to the balance of the basis benefit account occurs on December 31, 2018, and after the completion of all other computations pursuant to § 1.245A-8(b). *See* § 1.245A-8(b)(4)(i)(B).

(3) *Example 3. Reduction in balance of extraordinary disposition account under rules for simple cases by reason of allocation and apportionment of deductions to residual CFC gross income*—(i) *Facts.* The facts are the same as in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section (*Example 1*) (and the results are the same as in paragraph (c)(1)(ii)(A) of this section), except that CFC1 does not make a distribution to US1. In addition, during CFC2's taxable year beginning December 1, 2018, and ending November 30, 2019, the disqualified basis of Item 1 gives rise to a $6x amortization deduction, and the disqualified basis of Item 2 gives rise to a $4x amortization deduction, and each of the amortization deductions is allocated and apportioned to residual CFC gross income of CFC2 solely by reason of § 1.951A-2(c)(5) (though, but for § 1.951A-2(c)(5), would have been allocated and apportioned to gross tested income of CFC2). Further, as of the end of CFC2's taxable year ending November 30, 2019, CFC2 has $15x of earnings and profits. Lastly, because the conditions of § 1.245A-6(b)(1) and (2) are satisfied for US1's 2018 taxable year, US1 chooses to apply § 1.245A-7 (rules for simple cases) in lieu of § 1.245A-8 (rules for complex cases) for that taxable year.

(ii) *Analysis.* Pursuant to § 1.245A-7(c)(1), US1's extraordinary disposition account with respect to CFC1 is reduced by the lesser of the amount described in § 1.245A-7(c)(1)(i) with respect to US1, and the RGI account of US1 with respect to CFC2 that relates to its extraordinary disposition account with respect to CFC1. *See* § 1.245A-7(c)(1). Paragraphs (c)(3)(ii)(A) through (D) of this section describe the determinations pursuant to § 1.245A-8(c)(1).

(A) *Computation of adjusted earnings of CFC2, and amount described in § 1.245A-7(c)(1)(i) with respect to US1.* To determine the amount described in § 1.245A-7(c)(1)(i) with respect to US1, the adjusted earnings of CFC2 must be computed for CFC2's taxable year ending November 30, 2019. *See* § 1.245A-7(c)(1)(i). Paragraphs (c)(3)(ii)(A)(*1*) and (*2*) of this section describe these determinations.

(*1*) The adjusted earnings of CFC2 for its taxable year ending November 30, 2019, is $25x, computed as $15x (CFC2's earnings and profits as of November 30, 2019, the last day of that taxable year), plus $10x (the sum of the $6x and $4x amortization deductions of CFC2 for that taxable year, which is the amount of all deductions or losses of CFC2 that is or was attributable to disqualified basis of items of specified property and allocated and apportioned to residual CFC gross income of CFC2 solely by reason of § 1.951A-2(c)(5)(i)). *See* § 1.245A-7(c)(3).

(*2*) For CFC2's taxable year ending November 30, 2019, the amount described in § 1.245A-7(c)(1)(i) with respect to US1 is $25x, computed as the excess of $25x (the adjusted earnings) over $0 (the sum of the balance of the previously taxed earnings and profits accounts with respect to CFC2).

(B) *Increase to balance of RGI account.* Under § 1.245A-9(d)(11), US1 has an RGI account with respect to CFC2 that relates to its extraordinary disposition account with respect to CFC1. On November 30, 2019 (the last day of CFC2's taxable year), the balance of the RGI account (which is initially zero) is increased by $10x, the sum of the $6x and $4x amortization deductions of CFC2 for its taxable year ending November 30, 2019. *See* § 1.245A-7(c)(4)(i). Each of the amortization deductions is taken into account for this purpose because, but for § 1.951A-2(c)(5)(i), the deduction would have decreased CFC2's tested income or increased or given rise to a tested loss of CFC2. *See* § 1.245A-7(c)(4)(i).

(C) *Reduction in balance of extraordinary disposition account.* Pursuant to § 1.245A-7(c)(1), US1's extraordinary disposition account with respect to CFC1 is reduced by $10x, the lesser of the amount described in § 1.245A-7(c)(1)(i) with respect to US1 for CFC2's taxable year ending November 30, 2019 ($25x), and the balance of US1's RGI account with respect to CFC2 that relates to its extraordinary disposition account with respect to CFC1 ($10x, determined as of November 30, 2019, but without regard to the application of § 1.245A-7(c)(4)(ii) for the taxable year of CFC2 ending on that date). *See* § 1.245A-7(c)(1). The $10x reduction in the balance of US1's extraordinary disposition account occurs on December 31, 2019, the last day of US1's taxable year that includes November 30, 2019 (the last day of CFC2's taxable year). *See* § 1.245A-9(c)(3).

(D) *Reduction in balance of RGI account.* On November 30, 2019 (the last day of CFC2's taxable year), the balance of US1's RGI account with respect to CFC2 that relates to its extraordinary disposition account with respect to CFC1 is decreased by $10x, the amount of the reduction, pursuant to § 1.245A-7(c)(1) section and by reason of the RGI account, to US1's extraordinary disposition account with respect to CFC1. *See* § 1.245A-7(c)(4)(ii). Therefore, following that reduction, the balance of the RGI account is zero ($10x−$10x).

(iii) *Alternative facts in which the reduction is limited by earnings and profits.* The facts are the same as in paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section (*Example 3*), except that CFC2 has a $5x deficit in its earnings and profits as of the end of its taxable year ending November 30, 2019. In this case—

(A) The adjusted earnings of CFC2 for its taxable year ending November 30, 2019, is $5x, computed as −$5x (CFC2's deficit in earnings and profits as of November 30, 2019) plus $10x (the sum of the $6x and $4x amortization deductions of CFC2), *see* § 1.245A-7(c)(3);

(B) The amount described in § 1.245A-7(c)(1)(i) with respect to US1 for CFC's taxable year ending November 30, 2019, is $5x, computed as the excess of $5x (the adjusted earnings) over $0 (the sum of the balance of the previously taxed earnings and profits accounts with respect to CFC2), *see* § 1.245A-7(c)(1)(i);

(C) On December 31, 2019, US1's extraordinary disposition account with respect to CFC1 is reduced by $5x, the lesser of the amount described in § 1.245A-7(c)(1)(i) with respect to US1 for CFC2's taxable year ending November 30, 2019 ($5x), and the balance of US1's RGI account with respect to CFC2 that relates to its extraordinary disposition account with respect to CFC1 ($10x, determined as of November 30, 2019, but without regard to the application of § 1.245A-8(c)(4)(i)(B) for the taxable year of CFC2 ending on that date), *see* §§ 1.245A-7(c)(1) and 1.245A-9(c)(3); and

(D) On November 30, 2019 (the last day of CFC2's taxable year), the balance of US1's RGI account with respect to CFC2 is decreased by $5x (the amount of the reduction, pursuant to § 1.245A-7(c)(1) and by reason of the RGI account, to US1's extraordinary disposition account with respect to CFC1) and, therefore, following such reduction, the balance of the RGI account is $5x ($10x−$5x), *see* § 1.245A-7(c)(4)(ii).

(4) *Example 4. Reduction to extraordinary disposition accounts limited by § 1.245A-8(c)(6)*—(i) *Facts.* The facts are the same as in paragraph (c)(3)(iii) of this section (*Example 3,* alternative facts in which the reduction is limited by earnings and profits) (and the results are the same as in paragraph (c)(1)(ii)(A) of this section), except that US1 also owns 100% of the stock of US2, which owns 100% of the stock of CFC3, and on November 30, 2018, in a transaction that was an extraordinary disposition, CFC3 sold an item of specified property (“Item 3”) to CFC2 in exchange for $200x of cash. Item 3 had a basis of $0 in the hands of CFC3 immediately before the sale and, therefore, CFC3 recognized $200x of gain as a result of the sale ($200x−$0), Item 3 has $200x of disqualified basis under § 1.951A-2(c)(5), and US2 has an extraordinary disposition account with respect to CFC3 with an initial balance of $200x under § 1.245A-5(c)(3)(i)(A). Moreover, during CFC2's taxable year beginning December 1, 2018, and ending November 30, 2019, the disqualified basis of Item 3 gives rise to a $20x amortization deduction, which is allocated and apportioned to residual CFC gross income of CFC2 solely by reason of § 1.951A-2(c)(5) (though, but for § 1.951A-2(c)(5), would have been allocated and apportioned to gross tested income of CFC2). Further, as of the end of US1's 2018 taxable year, the balance of US1's basis benefit account with respect to its extraordinary disposition account with respect to CFC1 is $0; similarly, as of the end of US2's 2018 taxable year, the balance of US2's basis benefit account with respect to its extraordinary disposition account with respect to CFC2 is $0. Because CFC2 holds items of specified property that correspond to more than one extraordinary disposition account (that is, Item 1 and Item 2 correspond to US1's extraordinary disposition account with respect to CFC2, and Item 3 corresponds to US2's extraordinary disposition account with respect to CFC2), the condition of § 1.245A-6(b)(2) is not satisfied. *See* § 1.245A-6(b)(2)(ii)(C)(*3*). US1 and US2 therefore apply § 1.245A-8 (rules for complex cases) for their 2018 taxable years.

(ii) *Analysis.* Pursuant to § 1.245A-8(c)(1), US1's extraordinary disposition account with respect to CFC1 is, subject to the limitation in § 1.245A-8(c)(6), reduced by the lesser of the amount described in § 1.245A-8(c)(1)(i) with respect to US1, and the RGI account of US1 with respect to CFC2 that relates to its extraordinary disposition account with respect to CFC1. *See* § 1.245A-8(c)(1). Similarly, US2's extraordinary disposition account with respect to CFC3 is, subject to the limitation in § 1.245A-8(c)(6), reduced by the lesser of the amount described in § 1.245A-8(c)(1)(i) with respect to US2, and the RGI account of US2 with respect to CFC2 that relates to its extraordinary disposition account with respect to CFC3. *See* § 1.245A-8(c)(1). Paragraphs (c)(4)(ii)(A) through (F) of this section describe the determinations pursuant to § 1.245A-8(c)(1).

(A) *Ownership requirement.* Each of US1 and US2 satisfy the ownership requirement of § 1.245A-8(c)(5) for CFC2's taxable year ending November 30, 2019, because on the last day of that taxable year each is a United States shareholder with respect to CFC2. *See* § 1.245A-8(c)(5).

(B) *Computation of adjusted earnings of CFC2, and amount described in § 1.245A-8(c)(1)(i) with respect to US1 and US2.* The adjusted earnings of CFC2 for its taxable year ending November 30, 2019, is $25x, computed as −$5x (CFC2's deficit in earnings and profits as of November 30, 2019), plus $30x (the sum of the $6x, $4x, and $20x amortization deductions of CFC2). *See* § 1.245A-8(c)(3). For CFC2's taxable year ending November 30, 2019, the amount described in § 1.245A-8(c)(1)(i) with respect to US1 is $25x, computed as the excess of the product of $25x (the adjusted earnings) and 100% (the percentage of the stock of CFC2 that US1 and its domestic affiliate, US2, own), over $0 (the sum of the balance of certain previously taxed earnings and profits accounts and hybrid deduction accounts). *See* § 1.245A-8(c)(1)(i). Similarly, for CFC2's taxable year ending November 30, 2019, the amount described in § 1.245A-8(c)(1)(i) with respect to US2 is $25x, computed as the excess of the product of $25x (the adjusted earnings) and 100% (the percentage of the stock of CFC2 that US2 and its domestic affiliate, US1, own), over $0 (the sum of the balance of certain previously taxed earnings and profits accounts and hybrid deduction accounts). *See* § 1.245A-8(c)(1)(i).

(C) *Increase to balance of RGI account.* As described in paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(B) of this section, US1 has an RGI account with respect to CFC2 that relates to its extraordinary disposition account with respect to CFC1, and the balance of the RGI account is $10x on November 30, 2019 (the last day of CFC2's taxable year). Similarly, US2 has an RGI account with respect to CFC2 that relates to its extraordinary disposition account with respect to CFC3, and the balance of the RGI account is $20x on November 30, 2019 (reflecting a $20x increase to the balance of the account for the $20x amortization deduction of CFC2 for its taxable year ending November 30, 2019). *See* § 1.245A-8(c)(4)(i).

(D) *Reduction in balance of extraordinary disposition accounts but for § 1.245A-8(c)(6).* But for the application of § 1.245A-8(c)(6), US1's extraordinary disposition account with respect to CFC2 would be reduced by $10x, which is the lesser of $25x, the amount described in § 1.245A-8(c)(1)(i) with respect to US1 for CFC2's taxable year ending November 30, 2019, and $10x, the balance of the RGI account of US1 with respect to CFC2 that relates to its extraordinary disposition account with respect to CFC1 (determined as of November 30, 2019, but without regard to the application of § 1.245A-8(c)(4)(i)(B) for the taxable year of CFC2 ending on that date). *See* § 1.245A-8(c)(1)(i) and (ii). Similarly, but for the application of § 1.245A-8(c)(6), US2's extraordinary disposition account with respect to CFC3 would be reduced by $20x, which is the lesser of $25x, the amount described in § 1.245A-8(c)(1)(i) with respect to US2 for CFC2's taxable year ending November 30, 2019, and $20x, the balance of the RGI account of US2 with respect to CFC2 that relates to its extraordinary disposition account with respect to CFC3 (determined as of November 30, 2019, but without regard to the application of § 1.245A-8(c)(4)(i)(B) for the taxable year of CFC2 ending on that date). *See* § 1.245A-8(c)(1)(i) and (ii).

(E) *Application of limitation of § 1.245A-8(c)(6).* As described in paragraph (c)(4)(ii)(D) of this section, but for the application of § 1.245A-8(c)(6), there would be a total of $30x of reductions to US1's extraordinary disposition account with respect to CFC1, and US2's extraordinary disposition account with respect to CFC3, by reason of the application of § 1.245A-8(c)(1) with respect to CFC2's taxable year ending November 30, 2019. Because that $30x exceeds the amount described in § 1.245A-8(c)(1)(i) with respect to US1 and US2 ($25x)—

(*1*) US1's extraordinary disposition account with respect to CFC1 is reduced by $7.86x, computed as $10x (the reduction that would occur but for § 1.245A-8(c)(6)) less the product of $5x (the excess amount, computed as $30x, the total reductions that would occur but for the application of § 1.245A-8(c)(6), less $25x, the amount described in § 1.245A-8(c)(1)(i)) and a fraction, the numerator of which is $150x (the balance of US1's extraordinary disposition account with respect to CFC1) and the denominator of which is $350x ($150x, the balance of US1's extraordinary disposition account with respect to CFC1, plus $200x, the balance of US2's extraordinary disposition account with respect to CFC3), *see* § 1.245A-8(c)(6); and

(*2*) US2's extraordinary disposition account with respect to CFC3 is reduced by $17.14x, computed as $20x (the reduction that would occur but for § 1.245A-8(c)(6)) less the product of $5x (the excess amount, computed as $30x, the total reductions that would occur but for the application of § 1.245A-8(c)(6), less $25x, the amount described in § 1.245A-8(c)(1)(i)) and a fraction, the numerator of which is $200x (the balance of US2's extraordinary disposition account with respect to CFC3) and the denominator of which is $350x ($150x, the balance of US1's extraordinary disposition account with respect to CFC1, plus $200x, the balance of US2's extraordinary disposition account with respect to CFC3), *see* § 1.245A-8(c)(6) of this section.

(F) *Reduction in balance of RGI accounts.* On November 30, 2019 (the last day of CFC2's taxable year)—

(*1*) The balance of US1's RGI account with respect to CFC2 that relates to its extraordinary disposition account with respect to CFC1 is decreased by $7.86x (the amount of the reduction, pursuant to § 1.245A-8(c)(1) and by reason of the RGI account, to US1's extraordinary disposition account with respect to CFC1) and, thus, following that reduction, the balance of the RGI account is $2.14x ($10x−$7.86x), *see* § 1.245A-8(c)(4)(i)(B); and

(*2*) The balance of US2's RGI account with respect to CFC2 that relates to its extraordinary disposition account with respect to CFC3 is decreased by $17.14x (the amount of the reduction, pursuant to § 1.245A-8(c)(1) and by reason of the RGI account, to US2's extraordinary disposition account with respect to CFC3) and, thus, following that reduction, the balance of the RGI account is $2.86x ($20x−$17.14x), *see* § 1.245A-8(c)(4)(i)(B).

(5) *Example 5. Computation of duplicate DQB*—(i) *Facts.* The facts are the same as in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section (*Example 1*) (and the results are the same as in paragraph (c)(1)(ii)(A) of this section), except that CFC1 does not make any distribution to US1, and on November 30, 2018, immediately after the Disqualified Transfer, CFC2 transfers Item 1 to newly-formed CFC3 solely in exchange for the sole share of stock of CFC3 (the contribution, “Contribution 1,” and the share of stock of CFC3, the “CFC3 Share”) and, immediately after Contribution 1, CFC3 transfers Item 1 to newly-formed CFC4 solely in exchange for the sole share of stock of CFC4 (the contribution, “Contribution 2,” and the share of stock of CFC4, the “CFC4 Share”). Pursuant to section 358(a)(1), CFC2's basis in its share of stock of CFC3 is $90x, and CFC3's basis in its share of stock of CFC4 is $90x basis. As a result of Contribution 1, the condition of § 1.245A-6(b)(2) is not satisfied, because on at least one day of CFC2's taxable year ending on November 30, 2018 (which ends within US1's 2018 taxable year), CFC2 does not hold Item 1. *See* § 1.245A-6(b)(2)(ii)(C)(*1*). US1 therefore applies § 1.245A-8 (rules for complex cases) for its 2018 taxable year. *See* § 1.245A-6(b).

(ii) *Analysis*—(A) *Application of exchanged basis rule under section 951A to Contribution 1 and Contribution 2.* As a result of Contribution 1, pursuant to § 1.951A-3(h)(2)(ii)(B)(*2*)(*ii*), the disqualified basis of CFC3 Share includes the disqualified basis of Item 1 ($90x), and therefore the disqualified basis of CFC3 Share is $90x. Similarly, as a result of Contribution 2, pursuant to § 1.951A-3(h)(2)(ii)(B)(*2*)(*ii*), the disqualified basis of CFC4 Share also includes the disqualified basis of Item 1 ($90x), and therefore the disqualified basis of CFC4 Share is $90x.

(B) *Determination of duplicate DQB of CFC3 Share as a result of Contribution 1.* Because the disqualified basis of CFC3 Share includes the disqualified basis of Item 1, CFC3 Share is an item of exchanged basis property that relates to Item 1. *See* § 1.245A-8(d)(2)(ii). In addition, because CFC3 Share is an item of exchanged basis property that relates to Item 1 (which corresponds to US1's extraordinary disposition account with respect to CFC1), CFC3 Share is, for purposes of § 1.245A-8, treated as an item of specified property that corresponds to US1's extraordinary disposition account with respect to CFC1. *See* § 1.245A-8(d)(2)(i). Further, the duplicate DQB of CFC3 Share as to Item 1 is $90x, the portion of the disqualified basis of CFC3 Share that includes Item 1's disqualified basis of $90x. *See* § 1.245A-8(d)(2)(iii)(A).

(C) *Determination of duplicate DQB of CFC4 Share as a result of Contribution 2.* For reasons similar to those described in paragraph (c)(5)(ii)(B) of this section, CFC4 Share is an item of exchanged basis property that relates to Item 1, CFC4 is treated for purposes of § 1.245A-8 as an item of specified property that corresponds to US1's extraordinary disposition account with respect to CFC1, and the duplicate DQB of CFC4 Share as to Item 1 is $90x.

(D) *Determination of duplicate DQB of CFC3 Share as a result of Contribution 2.* Because the disqualified basis of CFC3 Share and the disqualified basis of CFC4 Share each includes $90x of the disqualified basis of Item 1 and CFC3 receives the CFC4 Share in Contribution 2, the $90x of disqualified basis of CFC3 Share is attributable to the $90x of disqualified basis of CFC4 Share, and CFC3 Share is an item of exchanged basis property that relates to CFC4 Share. *See* § 1.245A-8(d)(2)(i) and (d)(2)(iii)(C). In addition, the duplicate DQB of CFC3 Share as to CFC4 Share is $90x. *See* § 1.245A-8(d)(2)(iii)(A).

(E) *Application of duplicate basis rules in* § *1.245A-8(b)(5).* For purposes of computing the fraction described in § 1.245A-8(b)(1)(ii), if US1's extraordinary disposition account with respect to CFC1 were to give rise to an extraordinary disposition amount or a tiered extraordinary disposition amount during US1's 2018 taxable year, then the duplicate DQB of CFC3 Share and the duplicate DQB of CFC4 Share would not be taken into account, because the disqualified basis of Item 1 (an item of specified property that corresponds to US1's extraordinary disposition account and as to which each of CFC3 Share and CFC4 share relates) would be taken into account. *See* § 1.245A-8(b)(1)(ii) and (b)(5)(i)(A). Accordingly, in such a case, for US1's 2018 taxable year, the numerator of the fraction described in § 1.245A-8(b)(1)(ii) would reflect only the disqualified basis of Item 1 or Item 2, as applicable, and the denominator would reflect only the sum of the disqualified basis of each of Item 1 and Item 2. *See* § 1.245A-8(b)(1)(ii) and (b)(5)(i)(A). Furthermore, to the extent there were to be a reduction under § 1.245A-8(b)(1) to the disqualified basis of Item 1, then the duplicate DQB of CFC4 Share would be reduced (but not below zero) by the product of the reduction to the disqualified basis of Item 1 and a fraction, the numerator of which would be $90x (the duplicate DQB of CFC4 Share), and the denominator of which would also be $90x (the duplicate DQB of CFC4 Share). *See* § 1.245A-8(b)(5)(i)(B). The $90x of duplicate DQB of CFC3 Share would be excluded from the denominator of the fraction described in the previous sentence because it is attributable to the $90x of duplicate DQB of CFC4 Share. *See* § 1.245A-8(b)(5)(i)(B)(*2*) (last sentence). For reasons similar to those described in this paragraph (c)(4)(ii)(E) with respect to the application of § 1.245A-8(b)(5)(i)(B) to CFC4 Share, the duplicate DQB of CFC3 Share would be reduced (but not below zero) by the product of the reduction to the disqualified basis of Item 1 and a fraction, the numerator of which would be $90x, and the denominator of which would also be $90x.

[T.D. 9934, 85 FR 76963, Dec. 1, 2020]