##### § 736.5 Disposition of real and personal property under special statutory authority. #####

In addition to the authority to sell personal property to the general public and to transfer real property to the General Services Administration under the provisions of §§ 736.3 and 736.4, the Department of the Navy has further authority to dispose of personal and real property as described in paragraphs (a) through (h) of this section.

(a) *Disposition to other Government agencies.* The Department of the Navy is authorized to transfer real and personal property to other governmental departments or agencies under statutes applicable to particular agencies, the act of March 4, 1915 (38 Stat. 1084) as amended (31 U.S.C. 686) and, as to certain personal property, under directives of the General Services Administration.

(b) *Leases.* Real and personal property under the control of the Department of the Navy not excess to its needs and not for the time being required for public use may be leased, when the Secretary of the Navy shall deem it to be advantageous to the Government, to such lessee or lessees and upon such terms and conditions as in his judgment will promote the national defense or will be in the public interest. Such leases shall be for a period of not exceeding five years unless the Secretary determines that a longer period will promote the national defense or will be in the public interest. Such leases are authorized by the act of August 10, 1956 (70A Stat. 150; 10 U.S.C. 2667). Leases of Government-owned real property where the estimated annual rental is more than 50,000 must be deferred for 30 days after reporting the proposed transaction to the Armed Services Committees of Congress in accordance with the act of August 10, 1956 70A Stat. 147), as amended (10 U.S.C. 2662).

(c) *Disposition of strategic materials.* Strategic materials may be disposed of by the Department of the Navy under the authority described in § 736.3 only when such property is excess to the needs of the Department of Defense and when the Director of the Office of Civil and Defense Mobilization (acting through the Defense Materials Service of the General Services Administration) determines that the amounts of such materials to be disposed of are so small as to make transfer thereof under the act of June 7, 1939 (53 Stat. 811) as amended (50 U.S.C. 98-98h) economically impractical, or such materials are not necessary for stockpile requirements determined in accordance with section 2 of said act.

(d) *Disposition of vessels.* Vessels stricken from the Naval Vessel Register may be sold by the Department of the Navy under the authority and subject to the limitations of the Federal Property Act (sections 203(i), 63 Stat. 386, 40 U.S.C. 484(i)) and the act of August 10, 1956, (70A Stat. 451; 10 U.S.C. 7304, 7305, 7307) and Executive Order 11765 (39 FR 2577). However, pursuant to section 203(i) of the Federal Property Act (40 U.S.C. 484(i)), the United States Maritime Commission disposes of vessels, other than warships, if over 1,500 gross tons and determined by the Maritime Commission to be merchant vessels or capable of conversion to merchant use. Vessels may be sold for scrapping or for use under such authority or, if such sale is not feasible, the Naval Sea Systems Command may arrange for the demolition of a vessel and sale of the resulting materials by an authorized selling activity as set forth in § 736.3.

(e) Exchange or sale of property for replacement purposes. Under the authority of section 201(c) of the Federal Property Act (40 U.S.C. 481(c)) and consistent with Department of Defense implementing regulations, DOD 4140.1-R and the Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement, the Department of the Navy is authorized in the acquisition of new equipment to exchange or sell similar items which are not excess to its needs, and apply the exchange allowance or proceeds of sale in whole or part payment for the items acquired.

(f) *Donations and loans of personal property.* (1) Certain personal property of the Department of the Navy, including vessels, which become surplus, may be donated or loaned under the authority contained in the Federal Property Act and the act of August 10, 1956 (70A Stat. 453; 10 U.S.C. 2572, 7308, 7545) to:

(i) Schools such as maritime academies or military, naval, Air Force or Coast Guard preparatory schools, designated by the Secretary of Defense as educational activities of special interest to the armed services.

(ii) Accredited schools, colleges and universities and educational institutions which have been exempted from taxation under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 and State Departments of Education for use by tax exempt educational institutions. Applications for donation shall be approved by the Department of Health and Human Services and the Administrator of General Services and may be filed with the field representative of the Department of Health and Human Services located nearest the applicant.

(iii) States, Territories, Commonwealths, or possessions of the United States and political subdivisions, municipal corporations, veterans associations, soldiers' monument associations, State museums, and non-profit educational museums, subject in certain cases to the approval of the Curator for the Navy and to objection by a concurrent resolution of the Congress.

(2) Applications other than those to be filed with the field representative of the Department of Health and Human Services shall be filed with the Department of the Navy and referred to the cognizant Command or Headquarters for action except that applications for vessels and district craft shall be referred to the Chief of Naval Operations, applications for boats to the Naval Sea Systems Command, and applications for barges, floating drydocks, and other floating construction equipment to the Naval Facilities Engineering Command. Detailed instructions with respect to such applications are set forth in the Defense Material Disposition Manual.

(g) *Disposition of equipment for research.* Under the act of September 6, 1958 (72 Stat. 1793; 42 U.S.C. 1891-1893), equipment purchased with research grant or contract funds may be transferred for the conduct of basic or applied scientific research to (1) non-profit institutions of higher education or (2) non-profit organizations whose primary purpose is the conduct of scientific research. An annual report of such transfers must be made to the appropriate Committees of Congress.

(h) *Assistance in major disaster relief.* Under the Disaster Relief Act of 1974 (Pub. L. No. 93-288) and subject to directions of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, certain excess personal property may be utilized for or donated to States and local governments for relief of suffering and damage resulting from major disasters. Surplus property may also be disposed of to States for sale to small business concerns affected by specific disasters such as hurricanes.

[25 FR 4674, May 27, 1960, as amended at 25 FR 11066, Nov. 22, 1960, 26 FR 12158, Dec. 20, 1961; 35 FR 10008, June 18, 1970; 39 FR 18442, May 28, 1974; 41 FR 26008, June 24, 1976; 47 FR 28371, June 30, 1982; 65 FR 53590, Sept. 5, 2000; 65 FR 67628, Nov. 13, 2000]