##### § 1312.2 Requirement to publish and file a tariff. #####

(a) *Requirement for tariff.* Except when providing transportation for charitable purposes without charge, or when providing transportation or service described in § 1312.1(b), carriers subject to the Board's jurisdiction under 49 U.S.C. Chapter 135 may provide transportation or service described in § 1312.1(a) only if the rates, and related rules and practices, for such transportation or service are contained in a published tariff that is on file with the Board and in effect under this part.

(b) *Adherence to tariff.* The carrier may not charge or receive a different compensation for the transportation or service than the rate specified in the tariff, whether by returning a part of that rate to a person, giving a person a privilege, allowing the use of a facility that affects the value of that transportation or service, or another device. The carrier shall keep such tariffs available for public inspection and shall make such tariffs available to subscribers as required in this part.

(c) *Other information.* Provisions for information purposes only may be included in a tariff, provided they are clearly identified as such. Such provisions may include rates and service terms covering transportation not subject to regulation by the Board, and advertising and promotional material.

(d) *Effect of filing.* The tender of a tariff and its receipt and acceptance by the Board do not relieve a carrier of liability for violations of the Act, other laws, the Board's regulations, or any decision of the Board or a court, or have any effect on the rights of persons to file complaints for substantive violations of the Act or the Board's regulations.

(e) *Tariff relief.* Relief from the provisions of this part may be sought. Requests for such relief shall be submitted in duplicate and accompanied by the appropriate fee (see 49 CFR part 1002). Packages containing applications for relief shall be prominently marked “SPECIAL TARIFF AUTHORITY APPLICATION.” The application shall cite all pertinent tariff matter and shall provide complete information regarding applicant's justification, purpose and manner of relief sought.

(f) *Invalidation of tariffs.* Tariffs that violate section 13702 of the Act, or a regulation of the Board carrying out that section, may be invalidated by the Board. When a tariff is invalidated, the party that filed it will be furnished a written explanation of the reasons for such action. Tariffs issued in lieu of invalidated tariffs shall so state.