##### ยง 422.619 How an MA organization must effectuate expedited reconsidered determinations. #####

(a) *Reversals by the MA organization.* If on reconsideration of an expedited request for service, the MA organization completely reverses its organization determination, the MA organization must authorize or provide the service under dispute as expeditiously as the enrollee's health condition requires, but no later than 72 hours after the date the MA organization receives the request for reconsideration (or no later than upon expiration of an extension described in ยง 422.590(e)).

(b) *Reversals by the independent outside entity.* If the MA organization's determination is reversed in whole or in part by the independent outside entity, the MA organization must authorize or provide the service under dispute as expeditiously as the enrollee's health condition requires but no later than 72 hours from the date it receives notice reversing the determination. The MA organization must inform the independent outside entity that the organization has effectuated the decision.

(c) *Reversals other than by the MA organization or the independent outside entity* - (1) *General rule.* If the independent outside entity's expedited determination is reversed in whole or in part by the ALJ, or at a higher level of appeal, the MA organization must authorize or provide the service under dispute as expeditiously as the enrollee's health condition requires, but no later than 60 days from the date it receives notice reversing the determination. The MA organization must inform the independent outside entity that the organization has effectuated the decision.

(2) *Effectuation exception when the MA organization files an appeal with the Medicare Appeals Council.* If the MA organization requests Medicare Appeals Council (the Board) review consistent with ยง 422.608, the MA organization may await the outcome of the review before it authorizes or provides the service under dispute. A MA organization that files an appeal with the Board must concurrently send a copy of its appeal request and any accompanying documents to the enrollee and must notify the independent outside entity that it has requested an appeal.

[65 FR 40331, June 29, 2000, as amended at 68 FR 50859, Aug. 22, 2003; 80 FR 7962, Feb. 12, 2015]