cfr/title-42-Public-Health/chapter-IV-Centers-Medicare-amp-Medicaid-Services-Department-Health-Human-Services/subchapter-B-Medicare-Program/part-422-Medicare-Advantage-Program/subpart-M-Grievances-Organization-Determinations-Appeals/section-422.560.md, before:

##### § 422.560 Basis and scope. #####

Link to an amendment published at 84 FR 15833, April 16, 2019.

(a) *Statutory basis.* (1) Section 1852(f) of the Act provides that an MA organization must establish meaningful grievance procedures.

(2) Section 1852(g) of the Act establishes requirements that an MA organization must meet concerning organization determinations and appeals.

(3) Section 1869 of the Act specifies the amount in controversy needed to pursue a hearing and judicial review and authorizes representatives to act on behalf of individuals that seek appeals. These provisions are incorporated for MA appeals by section 1852(g)(5) of the Act and part 405 of this chapter.

(b) *Scope.* This subpart sets forth -

(1) Requirements for MA organizations with respect to grievance procedures, organization determinations, and appeal procedures.

(2) The rights of MA enrollees with respect to organization determinations, and grievance and appeal procedures.

(3) The rules concerning notice of noncoverage of inpatient hospital care.

(4) The rules that apply when an MA enrollee requests immediate QIO review of a determination that he or she no longer needs inpatient hospital care.

(c) *Relation to ERISA requirements.* Consistent with section 1857(i)(2) of the Act, provisions of this subpart may, to the extent applicable under regulations adopted by the Secretary of Labor, apply to claims for benefits under group health plans subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act.

[63 FR 35107, June 26, 1998, as amended at 70 FR 4738, Jan. 28, 2005]

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2021-01-01 issue
Title: 5: Administrative Personnel - Sections changed: 2
Title: 12: Banks and Banking - Sections changed: 10
Title: 16: Commercial Practices - Sections changed: 1
Title: 17: Commodity and Securities Exchanges - Sections changed: 26
Title: 29: Labor - Sections changed: 3
Title: 37: Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights - Sections changed: 11
Title: 40: Protection of Environment - Sections changed: 44
Title: 42: Public Health - Sections changed: 97
Title: 45: Public Welfare - Sections changed: 11
Title: 49: Transportation - Sections changed: 6
Title: 50: Wildlife and Fisheries - Sections changed: 27

cfr/title-42-Public-Health/chapter-IV-Centers-Medicare-amp-Medicaid-Services-Department-Health-Human-Services/subchapter-B-Medicare-Program/part-422-Medicare-Advantage-Program/subpart-M-Grievances-Organization-Determinations-Appeals/section-422.560.md, after:

##### § 422.560 Basis and scope. #####

(a) *Statutory basis.* (1) Section 1852(f) of the Act provides that an MA organization must establish meaningful grievance procedures.

(2) Section 1852(g) of the Act establishes requirements that an MA organization must meet concerning organization determinations and appeals.

(3) Section 1869 of the Act specifies the amount in controversy needed to pursue a hearing and judicial review and authorizes representatives to act on behalf of individuals that seek appeals. These provisions are incorporated for MA appeals by section 1852(g)(5) of the Act and part 405 of this chapter.

(4) Section 1859(f)(8) of the Act provides for, to the extent feasible, unifying grievances and appeals procedures under sections 1852(f), 1852(g), 1902(a)(3), 1902(a)(5), and 1932(b)(4) of the Act for Medicare and Medicaid covered items and services provided by specialized MA plans for special needs individuals described in subsection 1859(b)(6)(B)(ii) of the Act for individuals who are eligible under titles XVIII and XIX of the Act. Beginning January 1, 2021, procedures established under section 1859(f)(8) of the Act apply in place of otherwise applicable grievances and appeals procedures with respect to Medicare and Medicaid covered items and services provided by applicable integrated plans.

(b) *Scope.* This subpart sets forth—

(1) Requirements for MA organizations with respect to grievance procedures, organization determinations, and appeal procedures.

(2) The rights of MA enrollees with respect to organization determinations, and grievance and appeal procedures.

(3) The rules concerning notice of noncoverage of inpatient hospital care.

(4) The rules that apply when an MA enrollee requests immediate QIO review of a determination that he or she no longer needs inpatient hospital care.

(5) Requirements for applicable integrated plans with respect to procedures for integrated grievances, integrated organization determinations, and integrated reconsiderations.

(c) *Relation to ERISA requirements.* Consistent with section 1857(i)(2) of the Act, provisions of this subpart may, to the extent applicable under regulations adopted by the Secretary of Labor, apply to claims for benefits under group health plans subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act.

[63 FR 35107, June 26, 1998, as amended at 70 FR 4738, Jan. 28, 2005; 84 FR 15833, Apr. 16, 2019]
