##### § 635.14 Performance metrics. #####

(a) *General.* For purposes of § 635.21(c)(3), NMFS will determine “qualified” vessels based on the performance metrics in paragraph (b) of this section. Specifically, NMFS will use fishery dependent and fishery independent data to evaluate vessel performance based on avoidance of bluefin tuna interactions while fishing with a pelagic longline gear and history of compliance with the observer and logbook requirements of §§ 635.7 and 635.5, respectively.

(b) *Calculation of performance metrics.* In year one of implementation, NMFS will analyze the relevant data from the period 2006 to 2012 to determine a vessel's score and qualification status. Subsequently, NMFS will analyze available data from the most recent complete three consecutive year period to determine a vessel's score and qualification status. NMFS will communicate the results of the annual determination to individual permit holders in writing. NMFS may revise, through the framework procedures under § 635.34, the scoring system to reflect changes in the fishery or ensure that it provides the desired incentives and meets the goals of this program. The process used to calculate the performance metrics are described fully in Amendment 7 to the 2006 Consolidated HMS FMP. The main metrics are summarized below.

(1) *Bluefin tuna interactions performance metric.* The basis for the bluefin tuna interactions performance metric is the ratio of the number of bluefin tuna interactions (*i.e.,* the number of fish landed, discarded dead, and discarded alive) to the total weight of designated target species landings (in pounds). For the purposes of this section, the designated target species are: Swordfish; yellowfin, bigeye, albacore, and skipjack tunas; dolphin; wahoo; and porbeagle, shortfin mako, and thresher sharks. A relatively low bluefin tuna interaction to designated species ratio (`bluefin tuna ratio') indicates that the vessel has successfully avoided catching bluefin tuna while fishing with pelagic longline gear in the performance metric period.

(2) *Observer compliance performance metric.* NMFS will score vessels based on both the vessel owner's and the operator's compliance with the observer requirements outlined in § 635.7 of this part and § 600.746 of this chapter. In addition, the scoring system will consider the number of trips for which an individual vessel was selected to carry an observer, the number of trips actually observed, the reason why a particular trip was not observed, and other relevant observer information. The scoring system is neutral with respect to valid reasons that a vessel may have been selected by the observer program, but did not take an observer (*e.g.,* no observer was available or the vessel was not fishing with pelagic longline gear). The scoring system is designed to weigh trips that were not observed due to noncompliance with the communication requirements more heavily than those not observed due to noncompliance with the safety and accommodation requirements. The scoring system is also designed to consider evidence of fishing activity that may have occurred without required communication or observer coverage.

(3) *Logbook compliance performance metric.* NMFS will score vessels based on both the vessel owner's and vessel operator's compliance with the logbook reporting requirements outlined in § 635.5. This metric will reflect the timeliness of the submission of the logbooks (for example, the amount of time elapsed between the offloading of the catch and the logbook submission).

(4) *Combining performance metrics.* The performance metrics described under paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section will be combined through the use of a decision formula described in Amendment 7 to the 2006 Consolidated HMS FMP. The decision formula will result in a designation for each vessel of “qualified” or “not qualified.”

(c) *Annual notification.* NMFS will notify permitted vessel owners annually of the score of their vessel (*i.e.,* “qualified” or “not qualified”) by certified mail. The score applies for only one year. NMFS will make aggregate data regarding access to gear restricted areas available to the general public.

(d) *Appeals.* Permitted vessel owners can appeal their performance score determinations pursuant to the procedures, timing, and other requirements at § 635.15(k)(4)(i), (ii), and (iv). Any initial administrative determination or appeal would be evaluated based upon the following criteria:

(1) The accuracy of NMFS records regarding the relevant information; and

(2) Correct assignment of historical data to the vessel owner/permit holder. The current owner of a permitted vessel may also appeal on the basis of historical changes in vessel ownership or permit transfers. Appeals based on hardship factors will not be considered.

[79 FR 71590, Dec. 2, 2014]