##### ยง 4281.43 Notices of insolvency. #####

(a) *Requirement of notices of insolvency.* A plan sponsor that determines that the plan is, or is expected to be, insolvent for a plan year shall file with the PBGC and issue to plan participants and beneficiaries notices of insolvency. Once notices of insolvency have been filed with the PBGC and issued to plan participants and beneficiaries, no notice of insolvency needs to be issued for subsequent insolvency years. Notices shall be delivered in the manner and within the time prescribed in this section and shall contain the information described in ยง 4281.44.

(b) *Notices of insolvency - when delivered.* Except as provided in the next sentence, the plan sponsor shall mail or otherwise deliver the notices of insolvency no later than 30 days after the plan sponsor determines that the plan is or may be insolvent. However, the notice to plan participants and beneficiaries in pay status may be delivered concurrently with the first benefit payment made after the determination of insolvency.

(c) *Notices of insolvency - method of issuance to interested parties.* The PBGC applies the rules in subpart B of part 4000 of this chapter to determine permissible methods of issuance of the notice of insolvency. In addition to the methods permitted under subpart B of part 4000, the plan sponsor may notify interested parties, other than participants and beneficiaries who are in pay status when the notice is required to be delivered, by posting the notice at participants' work sites or publishing the notice in a union newsletter or in a newspaper of general circulation in the area or areas where participants reside. Notice to a participant shall be deemed notice to that participant's beneficiary or beneficiaries.

[61 FR 34118, July 1, 1996, as amended at 68 FR 61458, Oct. 28, 2003; 79 FR 30463, May 28, 2014; 80 FR 55745, Sept. 17, 2015]