##### § 160.041-3 Construction and workmanship. #####

(a) *Construction.* The container shall be of substantial and rugged construction, with the body, handle, and all fittings of a corrosion-resistant material or suitably protected against corrosion. All ferrous metal employed shall be protected by hot dip galvanizing, or other equally effective means. The thickness of metal in the container shall be at least equal to 20 USSG and all seams and joints shall be welded or brazed. Either the body or the cover shall contain a gasket of molded rubber or other material which will give a suitable watertight seal, and the mating piece shall be flanged or turned to form an effective bearing surface. The cover shall be fastened to the body by two positive closed type pull-down snap fasteners on one edge, which together with two positive open type pull-down snap fasteners at the opposite edge, and one positive open type pull-down snap fastener at each of the other two edges, shall effectively hold the bearing surfaces together to provide the required watertight closure. The container shall be capable of being opened and reclosed watertight.

(b) *Handle.* A suitable carrying handle, approximately 3″ × 11/4″, of 0.125″ diameter steel wire, shall be securely mounted on the side or end of the body of the container, and be so arranged that when laid flat against the container it will not project beyond either the upper or lower edge, and shall provide ample finger clearance for carrying.

(c) *Cover fasteners.* The cover fasteners shall be of the pull-down, draw bolt type or equivalent and of sufficient size and strength for the purpose. The fasteners shall be so constructed as not to jar loose by vibration, but to permit easy and quick opening with one hand. There may be no sharp edges and all parts shall be adequately protected against corrosion.