##### § 3201.6 Providing product information to Federal agencies. #####

(a) *Informational Web site.* An informational USDA Web site implementing section 9002 of FSRIA can be found at: *http://www.biopreferred.gov.* USDA will maintain a voluntary Web-based information site for manufacturers and vendors of qualified biobased products and Federal agencies to exchange information, as described in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) *Product information.* The Web site will, as determined to be necessary by the Secretary based on the availability of data, provide information as to the availability, price, biobased content, performance and environmental and public health benefits of the designated product categories and designated intermediate ingredient or feedstock categories. USDA encourages manufacturers and vendors to provide product and business contact information for designated categories. Instructions for posting information are found on the Web site itself. USDA also encourages Federal agencies to utilize this Web site to obtain current information on designated categories, contact information on manufacturers and vendors, and access to information on product characteristics relevant to procurement decisions. In addition to any information provided on the Web site, manufacturers and vendors are expected to provide relevant information to Federal agencies, subject to the limitations specified in § 3201.8(a), with respect to product characteristics, including verification of such characteristics if requested.

(2) *National Testing Center Registry.* The Web site will include an electronic listing of recognized industry standard testing organizations that will serve biobased product manufacturers such as ASTM International, Society of Automotive Engineers, and the American Petroleum Institute. USDA encourages stakeholders to submit information on other possible testing resources to the BioPreferred program for inclusion.

(b) *Advertising, labeling and marketing claims.* Manufacturers and vendors are reminded that their advertising, labeling, and other marketing claims, including claims regarding health and environmental benefits of the product, must conform to the Federal Trade Commission “Guides for the Use of Environmental Marketing Claims,” 16 CFR part 260 (*see: http://www.access.gpo.gov/nara/cfr/waisidx\_08/16cfr260\_08.html*). For further requirements, click on the link to the “Guidelines for Marketing the BioPreferred Program.”

[70 FR 1809, Jan. 11, 2005, as amended at 76 FR 6322, Feb. 4, 2011; 79 FR 44656, Aug. 1, 2014; 80 FR 34030, June 15, 2015]