cfr/title-14-Aeronautics-Space/chapter-I-Federal-Aviation-Administration-Department-Transportation/subchapter-C-Aircraft/part-25-Airworthiness-Standards-Transport-Category-Airplanes/subpart-A-General/section-25.5.md, before:

##### § 25.5 Incorporations by reference. #####

(a) The materials listed in this section are incorporated by reference in the corresponding sections noted. These incorporations by reference were approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. These materials are incorporated as they exist on the date of the approval, and notice of any change in these materials will be published in the Federal Register. The materials are available for purchase at the corresponding addresses noted below, and all are available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA), and at FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, Aircraft Certification Service, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington 98057-3356. For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal\_register/code\_of\_federal\_regulations/ibr\_locations.html.*

(b) The following materials are available for purchase from the following address: The National Technical Information Services (NTIS), Springfield, Virginia 22166.

(1) Fuel Tank Flammability Assessment Method User's Manual, dated May 2008, document number DOT/FAA/AR-05/8, IBR approved for § 25.981 and Appendix N. It can also be obtained at the following Web site: *http://www.fire.tc.faa.gov/systems/fueltank/FTFAM.stm.*

(2) [Reserved]

[73 FR 42494, July 21, 2008]

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2018-03-06 issue
Title: 14: Aeronautics and Space - Sections changed: 183
Title: 12: Banks and Banking - Sections changed: 5
Title: 17: Commodity and Securities Exchanges - Sections changed: 1
Title: 18: Conservation of Power and Water Resources - Sections changed: 4
Title: 31: Money and Finance: Treasury - Sections changed: 86
Title: 39: Postal Service - Sections changed: 1
Title: 40: Protection of Environment - Sections changed: 10

cfr/title-14-Aeronautics-Space/chapter-I-Federal-Aviation-Administration-Department-Transportation/subchapter-C-Aircraft/part-25-Airworthiness-Standards-Transport-Category-Airplanes/subpart-A-General/section-25.5.md, after:

##### § 25.5 Incorporations by reference. #####

(a) The materials listed in this section are incorporated by reference in the corresponding sections noted. These incorporations by reference were approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. These materials are incorporated as they exist on the date of the approval, and notice of any change in these materials will be published in the Federal Register. The materials are available for purchase at the corresponding addresses noted below, and all are available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.*

(b) The following materials are available for purchase from the following address: The National Technical Information Services (NTIS), Springfield, Virginia 22166.

(1) Fuel Tank Flammability Assessment Method User's Manual, dated May 2008, document number DOT/FAA/AR-05/8, IBR approved for § 25.981 and Appendix N. It can also be obtained at the following Web site: *http://www.fire.tc.faa.gov/systems/fueltank/FTFAM.stm.*

(2) [Reserved]

[73 FR 42494, July 21, 2008, as amended by Doc. No. FAA-2018-0119, Amdt. 21-101, 83 FR 9169, Mar. 5, 2018]
