##### § 803.2 Instructions applicable to Notification and Report Form. #####

(a)(1) The notification required by the act shall be filed by the preacquisition ultimate parent entity, or by any entity included within the person authorized by such preacquisition ultimate parent entity to file notification on its behalf. In the case of a natural person required by the act to file notification, such notification may be filed by his or her legal representative: *Provided however,* That notwithstanding §§ 801.1(c)(2) and 801.2 of this chapter, only one notification shall be filed by or on behalf of a natural person, spouse and minor children with respect to an acquisition as a result of which more than one such natural person will hold voting securities of the same issuer.

*Example 1 to paragraph (a)(1).*Jane Doe, her husband, and minor child collectively hold more than 50 percent of the shares of family corporation F. Therefore, Jane Doe (or her husband or minor child) is the “ultimate parent entity” of a “person” composed to herself (or her husband or minor child) and F; see § 801.1(a)(3), (b), and (c)(2) of of this chapter. If corporation F is to acquire corporation X, under this paragraph only one notification is to be filed by Jane Doe, her husband, and minor child collectively.

(2) Persons that are both acquiring and acquired persons shall submit separate forms, one as the acquiring person and one as the acquired person, following the appropriate instructions for each.

(b) In response to the Revenue and Overlaps section of the Notification and Report Form, information need not be supplied with respect to assets or voting securities to be acquired, the acquisition of which is exempt from the requirements of the act.

(b) In response to items 5, 7, and 8 of the Notification and Report Form—Information need not be supplied with respect to assets or voting securities to be acquired, the acquisition of which is exempt from the requirements of the act.

(c) The term *dollar revenues,* as used in the Notification and Report Form, means value of shipments for manufacturing operations, and sales, receipts, revenues, or other appropriate dollar value measure for operations other than manufacturing, f.o.b. the plant or establishment less returns, after discounts and allowances and excluding freight charges and excise taxes. Dollar revenues including delivery may be supplied if delivery is an integral part of the sales price. Dollar revenues include interplant transfers.

(d) For annual reports and audit reports required by the Notification and Report Form, a person filing the notification may, instead of submitting a document, provide a cite to an operative internet address directly linking to the document, if the linked document is complete and payment is not required to access the document. If an internet address becomes inoperative during the waiting period, or the document is otherwise rendered inaccessible or incomplete, upon notification by the Commission or Assistant Attorney General, the parties must make the document available to the agencies by either referencing an operative internet address where the complete document may be accessed or by providing electronic copies to the agencies as provided in § 803.10(c)(1) by 5 p.m. Eastern Time on the next regular business day. Failure to make the document available, by the internet or by providing electronic copies, by 5 p.m. Eastern Time on the next regular business day, will result in notice of a deficient filing pursuant to § 803.10(c)(2).

(e) Filings must comply with all format requirements set forth at the Premerger Notification Office pages at *https://www.ftc.gov*. The use of any format not specified as acceptable, or any other failure to comply with the applicable format requirements, shall render the entire filing deficient within the meaning of § 803.10(c)(2).

[43 FR 33548, July 31, 1978, as amended at 48 FR 34438, July 29, 1983; 66 FR 8695, Feb. 1, 2001; 66 FR 23565, May 9, 2001; 70 FR 11514, Mar. 8, 2005; 70 FR 73372, Dec. 12, 2005; 71 FR 35998, June 23, 2006; 76 FR 42483, July 19, 2011; 81 FR 60259, Sept. 1, 2016; 89 FR 89338, Nov. 12, 2024]