##### ยง 1274.914 Requests for waiver of rights - large business. #####

Requests for Waiver of Rights - Large BusinessJuly 2002

(a) In accordance with the NASA Patent Waiver Regulations, 14 CFR part 1245, subpart 1, waiver of rights to any or all inventions made or that may be made under a NASA agreement, contract or subcontract with other than a small business firm or a domestic nonprofit organization may be requested at different time periods. Advance waiver of rights to any or all inventions that may be made under a contract or subcontract may be requested prior to the execution of the agreement, contract or subcontract, or within 30 days after execution by the selected Recipient. In addition, waiver of rights to an identified invention made and reported under an agreement, contract or subcontract may be requested, even though a request for an advance waiver was not made or, if made, was not granted.

(b) Each request for waiver of rights shall be by petition to the Administrator and shall include an identification of the petitioner; place of business and address; if petitioner is represented by counsel, the name, address, and telephone number of the counsel; the signature of the petitioner or authorized representative; and the date of signature. No specific forms need be used, but the request should contain a positive statement that waiver of rights is being requested under the NASA Patent Waiver Regulations; a clear indication of whether the request is for an advance waiver or for a waiver of rights for an individual identified invention; whether foreign rights are also requested and, if so, the countries, and a citation of the specific Section or Sections of the regulations under which such rights are requested; and the name, address, and telephone number of the party with whom to communicate when the request is acted upon. Requests for advance waiver of rights should, preferably, be included with the proposal, but in any event in advance of negotiations.

(c) Petitions for advance waiver, prior to agreement execution, must be submitted to the Agreement Officer. All other petitions will be submitted to the Patent Representative designated in the contract.

(d) Petitions submitted with proposals selected for negotiation of an agreement will be forwarded by the Contracting or Officer to the installation Patent Counsel for processing and then to the Inventions and Contributions Board. The Board will consider these petitions and where the Board makes the findings to support the waiver, the Board will recommend to the Administrator that waiver be granted, and will notify the petitioner and the Agreement Officer of the Administrator's determination. The Agreement Officer will be informed by the Board whenever there is insufficient time or information or other reasons to permit a decision to be made without unduly delaying the execution of the agreement. In the latter event, the petitioner will be so notified by the Agreement Officer. All other petitions will be processed by installation Patent Counsel and forwarded to the Board. The Board shall notify the petitioner of its action and if waiver is granted, the conditions, reservations, and obligations thereof will be included in the Instrument of Waiver. Whenever the Board notifies a petitioner of a recommendation adverse to, or different from, the waiver requested, the petitioner may request reconsideration under procedures set forth in the Regulations.

[End of provision]