##### § 2.23 Delegation to hearing examiners. #####

(a) There is hereby delegated to hearing examiners the authority necessary to conduct hearings and to make recommendations relative to the grant or denial of parole or reparole, revocation or reinstatement of parole or mandatory release, and conditions of parole. Any hearing may be conducted by a single examiner or by a panel of examiners. A Executive Hearing Examiner shall function as a hearing examiner for the purpose of obtaining a panel recommendation whenever the Regional Commissioner has not ordered that a hearing be conducted by a panel of two examiners. Notwithstanding the provisions of §§ 2.48 through 2.51, §§ 2.101 through 2.104, and §§ 2.214 through 2.217, there is also delegated to hearing examiners the authority necessary to make a probable cause finding, to determine the location of a revocation hearing, and to determine the witnesses who will attend the hearing, including the authority to issue subpoenas for witnesses and evidence.

(b) The concurrence of two hearing examiners, or of a hearing examiner and the Executive Hearing Examiner, shall be required to obtain a panel recommendation to the Regional Commissioner. A panel recommendation is required in each case decided by a Regional Commissioner after the holding of a hearing.

(c) An examiner panel recommendation consists of two concurring examiner votes. In the event of divergent votes, the case shall be referred to another hearing examiner (or to the Executive Hearing Examiner in the case of a hearing conducted by a panel of examiners) for another vote. If concurring votes do not result from such a referral, the case shall be referred to any available hearing examiner until a panel recommendation is obtained.

(d) A recommendation of a hearing examiner panel shall become an effective Commission decision only upon the Regional Commissioner's approval, and docketing at the regional office.

[44 FR 3408, Jan. 16, 1979, as amended at 45 FR 84052, Dec. 12, 1980; 59 FR 45625, Sept. 2, 1994; 60 FR 51349, Oct. 2, 1995; 66 FR 51302, Oct. 9, 2001]