##### § 993.56 Reserve obligation. #####

Link to an amendment published at 89 FR 13589, Feb. 23, 2024.

Whenever salable and reserve percentages are in effect for any crop year, the reserve obligation of a handler shall approximate the average marketable content of the handler's receipts and shall be a weight of natural condition prunes equal to the reserve percentage applied to the natural condition weight of prunes, excluding the quantity of undersized prunes determined pursuant to § 993.49(c), such handler receives during the crop year from producers and dehydrators plus that diverted tonnage (dried weight natural condition prune basis) on diversion certificates credited to or held by him which were issued pursuant to § 993.62. However, if the committee determines the requirement as to set-aside reflecting average marketable content of receipts is not essential to achieve program objectives for the crop of a particular season, it may be eliminated for that season by the committee, with the approval of the Secretary. As a prerequisite for making this determination, the committee must find that the resultant set-aside procedures assure that the trade demand for manufacturing prunes, as well as prunes for consumption as prunes, will be met. The salable prunes permitted to be disposed of by any handler in accordance with the provisions of this part shall be deemed to be that handler's quota fixed by the Secretary within the meaning of section 8a(5) of the act.

[30 FR 9799, Aug. 8, 1965, as amended at 37 FR 862, Jan. 20, 1972; 88 FR 82236, Nov. 24, 2023]Effective Date Note:At 70 FR 30613, May 27, 2005, § 993.56 was suspended indefinitely. At 88 FR 82236, Nov. 24, 2023, the suspension was lifted, an amendment was made to § 993.56, and the section was stayed indefinitely.