##### § 1.684-4 Outbound migrations of domestic trusts. #####

(a) *In general.* If a U.S. person transfers property to a domestic trust, and such trust becomes a foreign trust, and neither trust is treated as owned by any person under subpart E of part I of subchapter J, chapter 1 of the Internal Revenue Code, the trust shall be treated for purposes of this section as having transferred all of its assets to a foreign trust and the trust is required to recognize gain on the transfer under § 1.684-1(a). The trust must also comply with the rules of section 6048.

(b) *Date of transfer.* The transfer described in this section shall be deemed to occur immediately before, but on the same date that, the trust meets the definition of a foreign trust set forth in section 7701(a)(31)(B).

(c) *Inadvertent migrations.* In the event of an inadvertent migration, as defined in § 301.7701-7(d)(2) of this chapter, a trust may avoid the application of this section by complying with the procedures set forth in § 301.7701-7(d)(2) of this chapter.

(d) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the rules of this section. In all examples, *A* is a U.S. citizen, *B* is a U.S. citizen, *C* is a nonresident alien, and *T* is a trust. The examples are as follows:

Example 1. Migration of domestic trust with U.S. beneficiaries. Atransfers property which has a fair market value of 1000X and an adjusted basis equal to 400X to *T,* a domestic trust, for the benefit of *A*'s children who are also U.S. citizens. *B* is the trustee of *T.* On January 1, 2001, while *A* is still alive, *B* resigns as trustee and *C* becomes successor trustee under the terms of the trust. Pursuant to § 301.7701-7(d) of this chapter, *T* becomes a foreign trust. *T* has U.S. beneficiaries within the meaning of § 1.679-2 and *A* is, therefore, treated as owning *FT* under section 679. Pursuant to § 1.684-3(a), neither *A* nor *T* is required to recognize gain at the time of the migration. Section 1.684-2(e) provides rules that may require *A* to recognize gain upon a subsequent change in the status of the trust.Example 2. Migration of domestic trust with no U.S. beneficiaries. Atransfers property which has a fair market value of 1000X and an adjusted basis equal to 400X to *T,* a domestic trust for the benefit of *A*'s mother who is not a citizen or resident of the United States. *T* is not treated as owned by another person. *B* is the trustee of *T.* On January 1, 2001, while *A* is still alive, *B* resigns as trustee and *C* becomes successor trustee under the terms of the trust. Pursuant to § 301.7701-7(d) of this chapter, *T* becomes a foreign trust, *FT. FT* has no U.S. beneficiaries within the meaning of § 1.679-2 and no person is treated as owning any portion of *FT. T* is required to recognize gain of 600X on January 1, 2001. Paragraph (c) of this section provides rules with respect to an inadvertent migration of a domestic trust.[T.D. 8956, 66 FR 37899, July 20, 2001]