##### ยง 1.683-2 Exceptions. #####

(a) In the case of any beneficiary of an estate or trust, sections 641 through 682 do not apply to any amount paid, credited, or to be distributed by an estate or trust in any taxable year of the estate or trust which begins before January 1, 1954, or which ends before August 17, 1954. Whether an amount so paid, credited, or to be distributed is to be included in the gross income of a beneficiary is determined with reference to the Internal Revenue Code of 1939. Thus, if a trust in its fiscal year ending June 30, 1954, distributed its current income to a beneficiary on June 30, 1954, the extent to which the distribution is includible in the beneficiary's gross income for his taxable year (the calendar year 1954) and the character of such income will be determined under the Internal Revenue Code of 1939. The Internal Revenue Code of 1954, however, determines the beneficiary's tax liability for a taxable year of the beneficiary to which such Code applies, with respect even to gross income of the beneficiary determined under the Internal Revenue Code of 1939 in accordance with this paragraph. Accordingly, the beneficiary is allowed credits and deductions pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 for a taxable year governed by the Internal Revenue Code of 1954. See subparagraph (ii) of example (1) in paragraph (c) of this section.

(b) For purposes of determining the time of receipt of dividends under sections 34 (for purposes of the credit for dividends received on or before December 31, 1964) and 116, the dividends paid, credited, or to be distributed to a beneficiary are deemed to have been received by the beneficiary ratably on the same dates that the dividends were received by the estate or trust.

(c) The application of this section may be illustrated by the following examples:

Example 1.(i) A trust, reporting on the fiscal year basis, receives in its taxable year ending November 30, 1954, dividends on December 3, 1953, and April 3, July 5, and October 4, 1954. It distributes the dividends to A, its sole beneficiary (who reports on the calendar year basis) on November 30, 1954. Since the trust has received dividends in a taxable year ending after July 31, 1954, it will receive a dividend credit under section 34 with respect to dividends received which otherwise qualify under that section, in this case dividends received on October 4, 1954 (i. e., received after July 31, 1954). See section 7851(a)(1)(C). This credit, however, is reduced to the extent the dividends are allocable to the beneficiary as a result of income being paid, credited, or required to be distributed to him. The trust will also be permitted the dividend exclusion under section 116, since it received its dividends in a taxable year ending after July 31, 1954.

(ii) A is entitled to the section 34 credit with respect to the portion of the October 4, 1954, dividends which is distributed to him even though the determination of whether the amount distributed to him is includible in his gross income is made under the Internal Revenue Code of 1939. The credit allowable to the trust is reduced proportionately to the extent A is deemed to have received the October 4 dividends. A is not entitled to a credit with respect to the dividends received by the trust on December 3, 1953, and April 3, and July 5, 1954, because, although he receives after July 31, 1954, the distribution resulting from the trust's receipt of dividends, he is deemed to have received the dividends ratably with the trust on dates prior to July 31, 1954. In determining the exclusion under section 116 to which he is entitled, all the dividends received by the trust in 1954 and distributed to him are aggregated with any other dividends received by him in 1954, since he is deemed to have received such dividends in 1954 and therefore within a taxable year ending after July 31, 1954. He is not, however, entitled to the exclusion for the dividends received by the trust in December 1953.

Example 2.(i) A simple trust reports on the basis of a fiscal year ending July 31. It receives dividends on October 3, 1953, and January 4, April 3, and July 5, 1954. It distributes the dividends to A, its sole beneficiary, on September 1, 1954. The trust, receiving dividends in a taxable year ending prior to August 17, 1954, is entitled neither to the dividend received credit under section 34 nor the dividend exclusion under section 116.

(ii) A (reporting on the calendar year basis) is not entitled to the section 34 credit, because, although he receives after July 31, 1954, the distribution resulting from the trust's receipt of dividends, he is deemed to have received the dividends ratably with the trust, that is, on October 3, 1953, and January 4, April 3, and July 5, 1954. He is, however, entitled to the section 116 exclusion with respect to the dividends received by the trust in 1954 (along with other dividends received by him in 1954) and distributed to him, since he is deemed to have received such dividends on January 4, April 3, and July 5, 1954, each a date in this taxable year ending after July 31, 1954. He is entitled to no exclusion for the dividends received by the trust on October 3, 1953, since he is deemed to receive the resulting distribution on the same date, which falls within a taxable year of his which ends before August 1, 1954, although he is required to include the October 1953 dividends in his 1954 income. See section 164 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1939.

Example 3.A simple trust on a fiscal year ending July 31, 1954, receives dividends August 5 and November 4, 1953. It distributes the dividends to A, its sole beneficiary (who is on a calendar year basis), on September 1, 1954. Neither the trust nor A is entitled to a credit under section 34 or an exclusion under section 116.[T.D. 6500, 25 FR 11814, Nov. 26, 1960, as amended by T.D. 6777, 29 FR 17809, Dec. 16, 1964]