##### § 1.681(a)-2 Limitation on charitable contributions deduction of trusts with trade or business income. #####

(a) *In general.* No charitable contributions deduction is allowable to a trust under section 642(c) for any taxable year for amounts allocable to the trust's unrelated business income for the taxable year. For the purpose of section 681(a) the term *unrelated business income* of a trust means an amount which would be computed as the trust's unrelated business taxable income under section 512 and the regulations thereunder, if the trust were an organization exempt from tax under section 501(a) by reason of section 501(c)(3). For the purpose of the computation under section 512, the term *unrelated trade or business* includes a trade or business carried on by a partnership of which a trust is a member, as well as one carried on by the trust itself. While the charitable contributions deduction under section 642(c) is entirely disallowed by section 681(a) for amounts allocable to “unrelated business income”, a partial deduction is nevertheless allowed for such amounts by the operation of section 512(b)(11), as illustrated in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section. This partial deduction is subject to the percentage limitations applicable to contributions by an individual under section 170(b)(1) (A) and (B), and is not allowed for amounts set aside or to be used for charitable purposes but not actually paid out during the taxable year. Charitable contributions deductions otherwise allowable under section 170, 545(b)(2), or 642(c) for contributions to a trust are not disallowed solely because the trust has unrelated business income.

(b) *Determination of amounts allocable to unrelated business income.* In determining the amount for which a charitable contributions deduction would otherwise be allowable under section 642(c) which are allocable to unrelated business income, and therefore not allowable as a deduction, the following steps are taken:

(1) There is first determined the amount which would be computed as the trust's unrelated business taxable income under section 512 and the regulations thereunder if the trust were an organization exempt from tax under section 501(a) by reason of section 501(c)(3), but without taking the charitable contributions deduction allowed under section 512(b)(11).

(2) The amount for which a charitable contributions deduction would otherwise be allowable under section 642(c) is then allocated between the amount determined in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph and any other income of the trust. Unless the facts clearly indicate to the contrary, the allocation to the amount determined in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph is made on the basis of the ratio (but not in excess of 100 percent) of the amount determined in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph to the taxable income of the trust, determined without the deduction for personal exemption under section 642(b), the charitable contributions deduction under section 642(c), or the deduction for distributions to beneficiaries under section 661(a).

(3) The amount for which a charitable contributions deduction would otherwise be allowable under section 642(c) which is allocable to unrelated business income as determined in subparagraph (2) of this paragraph, and therefore not allowable as a deduction, is the amount determined in subparagraph (2) of this paragraph reduced by the charitable contributions deduction which would be allowed under section 512(b)(11) if the trust were an organization exempt from tax under section 501(a) by reason of section 501(c)(3).

(c) *Examples.* (1) The application of this section may be illustrated by the following examples, in which it is assumed that the Y charity is not a charitable organization qualifying under section 170(b)(1)(A) (see subparagraph (2) of this paragraph):

Example 1.The X trust has income of $50,000. There is included in this amount a net profit of $31,000 from the operation of a trade or business. The trustee is required to pay half of the trust income to A, an individual, and the balance of the trust income to the Y charity, an organization described in section 170(c)(2). The trustee pays each beneficiary $25,000. Under these facts, the unrelated business income of the trust (computed before the charitable contributions deduction which would be allowed under section 512(b)(11)) is $30,000 ($31,000 less the deduction of $1,000 allowed by section 512(b)(12)). The deduction otherwise allowable under section 642(c) is $25,000, the amount paid to the Y charity. The portion allocable to the unrelated business income (computed as prescribed in paragraph (b)(2) of this section) is $15,000, that is, an amount which bears the same ratio to $25,000 as $30,000 bears to $50,000. The portion allocable to the unrelated business income, and therefore disallowed as a deduction, is $15,000 reduced by $6,000 (20 percent of $30,000, the charitable contributions deduction which would be allowable under section 512(b)(11)), or $9,000.Example 2.Assume the same facts as in example 1, except that the trustee has discretion as to the portion of the trust income to be paid to each beneficiary, and the trustee pays $40,000 to A and $10,000 to the Y charity. The deduction otherwise allowable under section 642(c) is $10,000. The portion allocable to the unrelated business income computed as prescribed in paragraph (b)(2) of this section is $6,000, that is, an amount which bears the same ratio to $10,000 as $30,000 bears to $50,000. Since this amount does not exceed the charitable contributions deduction which would be allowable under section 512(b)(11) ($6,000, determined as in example 1), no portion of it is disallowed as a deduction.Example 3.Assume the same facts as in example 1, except that the terms of the trust instrument require the trustee to pay to the Y charity the trust income, if any, derived from the trade or business, and to pay to A all the trust income derived from other sources. The trustee pays $31,000 to the Y charity and $19,000 to A. The deduction otherwise allowable under section 642(c) is $31,000. Since the entire income from the trade or business is paid to Y charity, the amount allocable to the unrelated business income computed before the charitable contributions deduction under section 512(b)(11) is $30,000 ($31,000 less the deduction of $1,000 allowed by section 512(b)(12)). The amount allocable to the unrelated business income and therefore disallowed as a deduction is $24,000 ($30,000 less $6,000).Example 4.(i) Under the terms of the trust, the trustee is required to pay half of the trust income to A, an individual, for his life, and the balance of the trust income to the Y charity, an organization described in section 170(c)(2). Capital gains are allocable to corpus and upon A's death the trust is to terminate and the corpus is to be distributed to the Y charity. The trust has taxable income of $50,000 computed without any deduction for personal exemption, charitable contributions, or distributions. The amount of $50,000 includes $10,000 capital gains, $30,000 ($31,000 less the $1,000 deduction allowed under section 512(b)(12)) unrelated business income (computed before the charitable contributions deduction which would be allowed under section 512(b)(11)) and other income of $9,000. The trustee pays each beneficiary $20,000.

(ii) The deduction otherwise allowable under section 642(c) is $30,000 ($20,000 paid to Y charity and $10,000 capital gains allocated to corpus and permanently set aside for charitable purposes). The portion allocable to the unrelated business income is $15,000, that is, an amount which bears the same ratio to $20,000 (the amount paid to Y charity) as $30,000 bears to $40,000 ($50,000 less $10,000 capital gains allocable to corpus). The portion allocable to the unrelated business income, and therefore disallowed as a deduction, is $15,000 reduced by $6,000 (the charitable contributions deduction which would be allowable under section 512(b)(11)), or $9,000.

(2) If, in the examples in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph, the Y charity were a charitable organization qualifying under section 170(b)(1)(A), then the deduction allowable under section 512(b)(11) would be computed at a rate of 30 percent.

[T.D. 6500, 25 FR 11814, Nov. 26, 1960, as amended by T.D. 6605, 27 FR 8097, Aug. 15, 1962]