##### ยง 644.341 Clearance with the Armed Services committees. #####

(a) Prior to a final report of excess, or transfer to another Federal agency or a State, of any Government-owned military real property with an estimated value, including the value of existing improvements, in excess of $100,000, the proposed disposal must be reported to the Committees. Also, proposals to outlease military real property for other than agricultural or grazing purposes must be reported if the estimated annual rental consideration is more than $100,000. A formal appraisal for estimating value need not be made. Reports to the Committees pertaining to Army military real property are made by the Chief of Engineers, and copies of reports are furnished the two senators of the State, and the congressman of the district where the property is located. Reports pertaining to Air Force property are made by that department. DEs, upon request, will assist Air Force commands in assembling the required data.

(b) For Army property, data will be furnished in the format shown in Figure 11-2 (ENG Form 2187-R, Real Estate Disposal Report) in ER 405-1-12, and three copies forwarded to HQDA (DAEN-REM) WASH DC 20314. The information should be submitted within three weeks after dispatch of the screening message, or within three weeks after receipt of the disposal directive when screening is not required.

(c) Clearance for transfer to another military department is obtained by the acquiring department. However, HQDA (DAEN-REZ-L) obtains clearance for transfer of Army property to a nondefense Federal agency where authorized by law.