##### ยง 627.2740 Creditors' claims. #####

Link to an amendment published at 86 FR 15083, Mar. 22, 2021.

(a) The receiver shall publish promptly a notice to creditors to present their claims against the institution, with proof thereof, to the receiver by a date specified in the notice, which shall be not less than 90 calendar days after the first publication. The notice shall be republished approximately 30 days and 60 days after the first publication. The receiver shall promptly send, by first class mail, a similar notice to any creditor shown on the institution's books at the creditor's last address appearing thereon. Claims filed after the specified date shall be disallowed, except as the receiver may approve them for full or partial payment from the institution's assets remaining undistributed at the time of approval.

(b) The receiver shall allow any claim that is timely received and proved to the receiver's satisfaction. The receiver may disallow in whole or in part any creditor's claim or claim of security, preference, or priority which is not proved to the receiver's satisfaction or is not timely received and shall notify the claimant of the disallowance and reason therefor. Sending the notice of disallowance by first class mail to the claimant's address appearing on the proof of claim shall be sufficient notice. The disallowance shall be final, unless, within 30 days after the notice of disallowance is mailed, the claimant files a written request for payment regardless of the disallowance. The receiver shall reconsider any claim upon the timely request of the claimant and may approve or disapprove such claim in whole or in part.

(c) Creditors' claims that are allowed shall be paid by the receiver from time to time, to the extent funds are available therefor and in accordance with the priorities established in this subpart and in such manner and amounts as the receiver deems appropriate. In the event the institution has a claim against a creditor of the institution, the receiver shall offset the amount of such claim against the claim asserted by such creditor.

(d) The claims of holders of notes, bonds, debentures, or other obligations issued by a bank under 12 U.S.C. 2153 (c) or (d) shall be made, if deemed necessary or appropriate, in accordance with procedures formulated by the Insurance Corporation. In the formulation of such procedures, the Insurance Corporation shall consult with the Farm Credit Administration.