##### § 800.401 Procedures for notice. #####

(a) A party or parties to a proposed or completed transaction may file a voluntary notice of the transaction with the Committee. Voluntary notice to the Committee is filed by sending one electronic copy of the notice that includes, in English, the information set out in § 800.402, including the certification required under paragraph (l) of that section. See the Committee's section of the Department of the Treasury website, currently available at *https://home.treasury.gov/policy-issues/international/the-committee-on-foreign-investment-in-the-united-states-cfius,* for electronic submission instructions.

(b) If the Committee determines that a transaction for which no voluntary notice has been filed under paragraph (a) of this section may be a covered transaction and may raise national security considerations, the Staff Chairperson, acting on the recommendation of the Committee, may request the parties to the transaction to provide to the Committee the information necessary to determine whether the transaction is a covered transaction, and if the Committee determines that the transaction is a covered transaction, to file a notice under paragraph (a) of such covered transaction.

(c) Any member of the Committee, or his designee at or above the Under Secretary or equivalent level, may file an agency notice to the Committee through the Staff Chairperson regarding a transaction for which no voluntary notice has been filed under paragraph (a) of this section if that member has reason to believe that the transaction is a covered transaction and may raise national security considerations. Notices filed under this paragraph are deemed accepted upon their receipt by the Staff Chairperson. No agency notice under this paragraph shall be made with respect to a transaction more than three years after the date of the completion of the transaction, unless the Chairperson of the Committee, in consultation with other members of the Committee, files such an agency notice.

(d) No communications other than those described in paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section shall constitute the filing or submitting of a notice for purposes of section 721.

(e) Upon receipt of the electronic copy of a notice filed under paragraph (a) of this section, including the certification required by § 800.402(l), the Staff Chairperson shall promptly inspect such notice for completeness.

(f) Parties to a transaction are encouraged to consult with the Committee in advance of filing a notice and, in appropriate cases, to file with the Committee a draft notice or other appropriate documents to aid the Committee's understanding of the transaction and to provide an opportunity for the Committee to request additional information to be included in the notice. Any such pre-notice consultation should take place, or any draft notice should be provided, at least five business days before the filing of a voluntary notice. All information and documentary material made available to the Committee pursuant to this paragraph shall be considered to have been filed with the President or the President's designee for purposes of section 721(c) and § 800.702.

(g) Information and other documentary material provided by the parties to the Committee after the filing of a voluntary notice under § 800.401 shall be part of the notice, and shall be subject to the certification requirements of § 800.402(l).

[73 FR 70716, Nov. 21, 2008, as amended at 83 FR 51320, Oct. 11, 2018]