cfr/title-24-Housing-Urban-Development/subtitle-B-Regulations-Relating-Housing-Urban-Development/chapter-IX-Office-Assistant-Secretary-Public-Indian-Housing-Department-Housing-Urban-Development/part-905-The-Public-Housing-Capital-Fund-Program/subpart-C-General-Program-Requirements/section-905.312.md, before:

##### § 905.312 Design and construction. #####

Link to an amendment published at 81 FR 92639, December 20, 2016.

The PHA shall meet the following design and construction standards, as applicable, for all development and modernization.

(a) Physical structures shall be designed, constructed, and equipped to be consistent with the neighborhoods they occupy; meet contemporary standards of modest design, comfort, and livability (see also § 905.202(c) of this part); promote security; promote energy conservation; and be attractive so as to harmonize with the community.

(b) All development projects shall be designed and constructed in compliance with:

(1) A national building code, such as those developed by the International Code Council or the National Fire Protection Association; and the IECC or ASHRAE 90.1-2010 (both incorporated by reference, see § 905.110 of this part), for multifamily high-rises (four stories or higher), or a successor energy code or standard that has been adopted by HUD pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 12709 or other relevant authority;

(2) Applicable state and local laws, codes, ordinances, and regulations;

(3) Other federal requirements, including fire protection and safety standards implemented under section 31 of the Fire Administration Authorization Act of 1992, 15 U.S.C. 2227 and HUD minimum property standards (e.g., 24 CFR part 200, subpart S);

(4) Accessibility Requirements as required by section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act (29 U.S.C. 794) and implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 8; title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act (42 U.S.C. 12101 *et seq.*) and implementing regulations at 28 CFR part 35; and, if applicable, the Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3601-3619) and implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 100; and

(5) Occupancy of high-rise elevator structures by families with children. Pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 1437d(a), a high-rise elevator structure shall not be provided for families with children regardless of density, unless the PHA demonstrates and HUD determines that there is no practical alternative.

(c) All modernization projects shall be designed and constructed in compliance with:

(1) The modernization standards as prescribed by HUD;

(2) Accessibility requirements as required by section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act (29 U.S.C. 794) and implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 8; title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act (42 U.S.C. 12101 *et seq.*) and implementing regulations at 28 CFR part 35; and, if applicable, the Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3601-3619) and implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 100; and

(3) Cost-effective energy conservation measures, identified in the PHA's most recently updated energy audit.

(d) Pursuant to the Energy Policy Act of 2005, in purchasing appliances, PHAs shall purchase appliances that are Energy Star products or Federal Energy Management Program designed products, unless the PHA determines that the purchase of these appliances is not cost effective.

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2017-01-19 issue
Title: 9: Animals and Animal Products - Sections changed: 16
Title: 19: Customs Duties - Sections changed: 291
Title: 34: Education - Sections changed: 19
Title: 48: Federal Acquisition Regulations System - Sections changed: 30
Title: 2: Federal Financial Assistance - Sections changed: 1
Title: 21: Food and Drugs - Sections changed: 6
Title: 22: Foreign Relations - Sections changed: 22
Title: 23: Highways - Sections changed: 18
Title: 24: Housing and Urban Development - Sections changed: 21
Title: 29: Labor - Sections changed: 24
Title: 31: Money and Finance: Treasury - Sections changed: 22
Title: 32: National Defense - Sections changed: 9
Title: 37: Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights - Sections changed: 2
Title: 38: Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief - Sections changed: 7
Title: 39: Postal Service - Sections changed: 1
Title: 42: Public Health - Sections changed: 39
Title: 43: Public Lands: Interior - Sections changed: 10

cfr/title-24-Housing-Urban-Development/subtitle-B-Regulations-Relating-Housing-Urban-Development/chapter-IX-Office-Assistant-Secretary-Public-Indian-Housing-Department-Housing-Urban-Development/part-905-The-Public-Housing-Capital-Fund-Program/subpart-C-General-Program-Requirements/section-905.312.md, after:

##### § 905.312 Design and construction. #####

The PHA shall meet the following design and construction standards, as applicable, for all development and modernization.

(a) Physical structures shall be designed, constructed, and equipped to be consistent with the neighborhoods they occupy; meet contemporary standards of modest design, comfort, and livability (see also § 905.202(c) of this part); promote security; promote energy conservation; and be attractive so as to harmonize with the community.

(b) All development projects shall be designed and constructed in compliance with:

(1) A national building code, such as those developed by the International Code Council or the National Fire Protection Association; and the IECC or ASHRAE 90.1-2010 (both incorporated by reference, see § 905.110 of this part), for multifamily high-rises (four stories or higher), or a successor energy code or standard that has been adopted by HUD pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 12709 or other relevant authority;

(2) Applicable state and local laws, codes, ordinances, and regulations;

(3) Other federal requirements, including fire protection and safety standards implemented under section 31 of the Fire Administration Authorization Act of 1992, 15 U.S.C. 2227 and HUD minimum property standards (e.g., 24 CFR part 200, subpart S);

(4) Accessibility Requirements as required by section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act (29 U.S.C. 794) and implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 8; title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act (42 U.S.C. 12101 *et seq.*) and implementing regulations at 28 CFR part 35; and, if applicable, the Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3601-3619) and implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 100; and

(5) Occupancy of high-rise elevator structures by families with children. Pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 1437d(a), a high-rise elevator structure shall not be provided for families with children regardless of density, unless the PHA demonstrates and HUD determines that there is no practical alternative.

(c) All modernization projects shall be designed and constructed in compliance with:

(1) The modernization standards as prescribed by HUD;

(2) Accessibility requirements as required by section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act (29 U.S.C. 794) and implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 8; title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act (42 U.S.C. 12101 *et seq.*) and implementing regulations at 28 CFR part 35; and, if applicable, the Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3601-3619) and implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 100; and

(3) Cost-effective energy conservation measures, identified in the PHA's most recently updated energy audit.

(d) Pursuant to the Energy Policy Act of 2005, in purchasing appliances, PHAs shall purchase appliances that are Energy Star products or Federal Energy Management Program designed products, unless the PHA determines that the purchase of these appliances is not cost effective.

(e) *Broadband infrastructure.* Any new construction or substantial rehabilitation, as substantial rehabilitation is defined in 24 CFR 5.100, of a building with more than 4 rental units and funded by a grant awarded or Capital Funds allocated after January 19, 2017 must include installation of broadband infrastructure, as this term is also defined in 24 CFR 5.100, except where the PHA determines and, in accordance with § 905.326, documents the determination that:

(1) The location of the new construction or substantial rehabilitation makes installation of broadband infrastructure infeasible;

(2) The cost of installing broadband infrastructure would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of its program or activity or in an undue financial burden; or

(3) The structure of the housing to be rehabilitated makes installation of broadband infrastructure infeasible.

[78 FR 63773, Oct. 24, 2013, as amended at 81 FR 92639, Dec. 20, 2016]
