##### § 1.1092(b)-2T Treatment of holding periods and losses with respect to straddle positions (temporary). #####

(a) *Holding period*—(1) *In general.* Except as otherwise provided in this section, the holding period of any position that is part of a straddle shall not begin earlier than the date the taxpayer no longer holds directly or indirectly (through a related person or flowthrough entity) an offsetting position with respect to that position. See § 1.1092(b)-5T relating to definitions.

(2) *Positions held for the long-term capital gain holding period (or longer) prior to establishment of the straddle.* Paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall not apply to a position held by a taxpayer for the long-term capital gain holding period (or longer) before a straddle that includes such position is established. The determination of whether a position has been held by a taxpayer for the long-term capital gain holding period (or longer) shall be made by taking into account the application of paragraph (a)(1) of this section. See section 1222(3) relating to the holding period for long-term capital gains.

(b) *Treatment of loss*—(1) *In general.* Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, loss on the disposition of one or more positions (*loss position*) of a straddle shall be treated as a long-term capital loss if—

(i) On the date the taxpayer entered into the loss position the taxpayer held directly or indirectly (through a related person or flowthrough entity) one or more offsetting positions with respect to the loss position; and

(ii) All gain or loss with respect to one or more positions in the straddle would be treated as long-term capital gain or loss if such positions were disposed of on the day the loss position was entered into.

(2) *Special rules for non-section 1256 positions in a mixed straddle.* Loss on the disposition of one or more positions (*loss position*) that are part of a mixed straddle and that are non-section 1256 positions shall be treated as 60 percent long-term capital loss and 40 percent short-term capital loss if—

(i) Gain or loss from the disposition of one or more of the positions of the straddle that are section 1256 contracts would be considered gain or loss from the sale or exchange of a capital asset;

(ii) The disposition of no position in the straddle (other than a section 1256 contract) would result in a long-term capital gain or loss; and

(iii) An election under section 1092(b)(2)(A)(i)(I) (relating to straddle-by-straddle identification) or 1092(b)(2)(A)(i)(II) (relating to mixed straddle accounts) has not been made.

(c) *Exceptions*—(1) *In general.* This section shall not apply to positions that—

(i) Constitute part of a hedging transaction;

(ii) Are included in a straddle consisting only of section 1256 contracts; or

(iii) Are included in a mixed straddle account (as defined in paragraph (b) of § 1.1092(b)-4T).

(2) *Straddle-by-straddle identification.* Paragraphs (a)(2) and (b) of this section shall not apply to positions in a section 1092(b)(2) identified mixed straddle. See § 1.1092(b)-3T.

(d) *Special rule for positions held by regulated investment companies.* For purposes of section 851(b)(3) (relating to the definition of a regulated investment company), the holding period rule of paragraph (a) of this section shall not apply to positions of a straddle. However, if section 1233(b) (without regard to sections 1233(e)(2)(A) and 1092(b)) would have applied to such positions, then for purposes of section 851(b)(3) the rules of section 1233(b) shall apply. Similarly, the effect of daily marking-to-market provided under § 1.1092(b)-4T(c) will be disregarded for purposes of section 851(b)(3).

(e) *Effective date*—(1) *In general.* Except as provided in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, the provisions of this section apply to positions in a straddle established after June 23, 1981, in taxable years ending after such date.

(2) *Special effective date for mixed straddle positions.* The provisions of paragraph (b)(2) of this section shall apply to positions in a mixed straddle established on or after January 1, 1984.

(f) *Examples.* Paragraphs (a) through (e) may be illustrated by the following examples. It is assumed in each example that the following positions are the only positions held directly or indirectly (through a related person or flowthrough entity) by an individual calendar year taxpayer during the taxable year and none of the exceptions in paragraph (c) of this section apply.

Example 1.On October 1, 1984, A acquires gold. On January 1, 1985, A enters into an offsetting short gold forward contract. On April 1, 1985, A disposes of the short gold forward contract at no gain or loss. On April 10, 1985, A sells the gold at a gain. Since the gold had not been held for more than 6 months before the offsetting short position was entered into, the holding period for the gold begins no earlier than the time the straddle is terminated. Thus, the holding period of the original gold purchased on October 1, 1984, and sold on April 10, 1985, begins on April 1, 1985, the date the straddle was terminated. Consequently, gain recognized with respect to the gold will be treated as short-term capital gain.Example 2.On January 1, 1985, A enters into a long gold forward contract. On May 1, 1985, A enters into an offsetting short gold regulated futures contract. A does not make an election under section 1256(d) or 1092(b)(2)(A). On August 1, 1985, A disposes of the gold forward contract at a gain. Since the forward contract had not been held by A for more than 6 months prior to the establishment of the straddle, the holding period for the forward contract begins no earlier than the time the straddle is terminated. Thus, the gain recognized on the closing of the gold forward contract will be treated as short-term capital gain.Example 3.Assume the facts are the same as in example (2), except that A disposes of the short gold regulated futures contract on July 1, 1985, at no gain or loss and the forward contract on November 1, 1985. Since the forward contract had not been held for more than 6 months before the mixed straddle was established, the holding period for the forward contract begins July 1, 1985, the date the straddle terminated. Thus, the gain recognized on the closing of the forward contract will be treated as short-term capital gain.Example 4.On January 1, 1985, A enters into a long gold forward contract and on August 4, 1985, A enters into an offsetting short gold forward contract. On September 1, 1985, A disposes of the short position at a loss. Since an offsetting long position had been held by A for more than 6 months prior to the acquisition of the offsetting short position, the loss with respect to the closing of the short position will be treated as long-term capital loss.Example 5.On March 1, 1985, A enters into a long gold forward contract and on July 17, 1985, A enters into an offsetting short gold regulated futures contract. A does not make an election under section 1256(d) or 1092(b)(2)(A). On August 10, 1985, A disposes of the long gold forward contract at a loss. Since the gold forward contract was part of a mixed straddle, and the disposition of no position in the straddle (other than the regulated futures contract) would give rise to a long-term capital loss, the loss recognized on the termination of the gold forward contract will be treated as 40 percent short-term capital loss and 60 percent long-term capital loss.Example 6.Assume the facts are the same as in example (5), except that on August 11, 1985, A disposes of the short gold regulated futures contract at a gain. Under these circumstances, the gain will be treated as 60 percent long-term capital gain and 40 percent short-term capital gain since the holding period rules of paragraph (a) of this section are not applicable to section 1256 contracts.Example 7.Assume the facts are the same as in example (5), except that A enters into the long gold forward contract on January 1, 1985, and does not dispose of the long gold forward contract but instead on August 10, 1985, disposes of the short gold regulated futures contract at a loss. Under these circumstances, the loss will be treated as a long-term capital loss since A held an offsetting non-section 1256 position for more than 6 months prior to the establishment of the straddle. However, such loss may be subject to the rules of § 1.1092(b)-1T.(Secs. 1092(b) and 7805 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 (68A Stat. 917, 95 Stat. 324, 26 U.S.C. 1092(b), 7805) and sec. 102(h) of the Tax Reform Act of 1984 (98 Stat. 625))[T.D. 8007, 50 FR 3320, Jan. 24, 1985, as amended by T.D. 8070, 51 FR 1788, Jan. 15, 1986]