##### § 48.201 Options. #####

As provided in § 48.203, a member may elect one or more of the following annuities. The amount must be specified at time of election, and may not be for more than 50 per centum nor less than 121/2 per centum of his retired pay, in no case may be less than a $25 monthly annuity be elected. If the election is made in terms of dollars, the amount may be more than 50 per centum of the retired pay that he would receive if he were to retire at the time of election; however, if such elected amount exceeds 50 per centum of his retired pay when he does retire, it shall be reduced to an amount equal to such 50 per centum. Also, if the dollar amount elected is less than 121/2 per centum of his retired pay when he does retire, it shall be increased to an amount equal to such 121/2 per centum.

(a) Option 1 is an annuity payable to or on behalf of his widow, the annuity to terminate upon her death or remarriage.

(b) Option 2 is an annuity payable to or on behalf of his surviving child or children as defined in § 48.102, the annuity to terminate when there ceases to be at least one such surviving child eligible to receive the annuity. Each payment under such annuity shall be paid in equal shares to or on behalf of the surviving children remaining eligible at the time the payment is due. A member who had this option in effect on the date of retirement, and who retired on or after November 1, 1968, may apply to the Secretary concerned to have a child (other than a child described in § 48.102(e)(4)) who is at least 18 but less than 23 years of age considered not to be an eligible beneficiary under this paragraph (b) or § 48.202. Normally such applications will be approved.

(c) Option 3 is an annuity to or on behalf of his widow and surviving child or children. Such annuity shall be paid to the widow until death or remarriage, and thereafter each payment under such annuity shall be paid in equal shares to or on behalf of the surviving children remaining eligible at the time the payment is due. A member may provide for allocating, during the period of the surviving spouse's eligibility, a part of the annuity under this subpart B for payment to those of his surviving children who are not children of that spouse. The sum allotted will not exceed the equitable share for which such children would be eligible after the death of the widow.

(d) When no eligible beneficiary remains to benefit from the option elected, the member's retired pay will be restored (except as provided in § 48.604, for certain members retired before Aug. 13, 1968). All elections on file on Aug. 13, 1968, for members not entitled to receive retired pay will be considered to include the restoration feature with attendant cost factors being applied at time of retirement. For the purpose of this paragraph, a child (other than a child described in § 48.102(e)(4)) who is at least 18 but less than 23 years of age, and is not pursuing a course of study as defined in § 48.102(e)(5), shall be considered an eligible beneficiary unless an approved application by the member pursuant to § 48.201(b) that such a child is not to be considered an eligible beneficiary is in effect (for members who retire on or after Nov. 1, 1968).