##### ยง 55.4981-1 Imposition of excise tax on certain real estate investment trust taxable income not distributed during the taxable year; taxable years ending on or before January 1, 1987. #####

Section 4981 as in effect before amendment by the Tax Reform Act of 1986 imposes an excise tax on a real estate investment trust if the deduction for dividends paid for the taxable year does not equal at least 75 percent of its real estate investment trust taxable income (computed as provided in section 4981 as in effect before amendment by the Tax Reform Act of 1986) for the taxable year. For purposes of section 4981 as in effect before amendment by the Tax Reform Act of 1986, the deduction for dividends paid is computed without regard to capital gains dividends (as defined in section 857(b)(3)(C)) and without regard to any dividends actually paid after the close of the taxable year. Thus, dividends considered as paid during the taxable year under section 858 are disregarded. Deficiency dividends (as defined in section 860(f) paid with respect to the taxable year are also disregarded. The return referred to in the last sentence of section 4981 as in effect before amendment by the Tax Reform Act of 1986 in the income tax return. Section 4981 as in effect before amendment by the Tax Reform Act of 1986, applies only to taxable years beginning after December 31, 1979 and ending before January 1, 1987, for which the taxpayer is taxable under Part II of Subchapter M of Chapter 1 of subtitle A as a real estate investment trust.

[T.D. 7767, 46 FR 11282, Feb. 6, 1981; 46 FR 15263, Mar. 5, 1981; T.D. 7936, 49 FR 2109, Jan. 18, 1984; T.D. 8180, 53 FR 6147, Mar. 1, 1988]