##### ยง 102.26 Motions, rulings, and orders part of the record; rulings not to be appealed directly to the Board without special permission; requests for special permission to appeal. #####

All motions, rulings, and orders shall become a part of the record, except that rulings on motions to revoke subpoenas shall become a part of the record only upon the request of the party aggrieved thereby as provided in ยง 102.31. Unless expressly authorized by the Rules and Regulations, rulings by the regional director or by the administrative law judge on motions and/or by the administrative law judge on objections, and orders in connection therewith, shall not be appealed directly to the Board except by special permission of the Board, but shall be considered by the Board in reviewing the record if exception to the ruling or order is included in the statement of exceptions filed with the Board pursuant to ยง 102.46. Requests to the Board for special permission to appeal from a ruling of the regional director or of the administrative law judge, together with the appeal from such ruling, shall be filed promptly, in writing, and shall briefly state the reasons special permission should be granted and the grounds relied on for the appeal. The moving party shall immediately serve a copy of the request for special permission and of the appeal on the other parties and, if the request involves a ruling by an administrative law judge, on the administrative law judge. Any statement in opposition or other response to the request and/or to the appeal shall be filed promptly, in writing, and shall be served immediately on the other parties and on the administrative law judge, if any. If the Board grants the request for special permission to appeal, it may proceed forthwith to rule on the appeal.

[47 FR 40770, Sept. 15, 1982]