##### ยง 200.206 Federal awarding agency review of risk posed by applicants. #####

(a) *Review of OMB-designated repositories of governmentwide data.* (1) Prior to making a Federal award, the Federal awarding agency is required by the Improper Payments Elimination and Recovery Improvement Act of 2012, 31 U.S.C. 3321 note, and 41 U.S.C. 2313 to review information available through any OMB-designated repositories of governmentwide eligibility qualification or financial integrity information as appropriate. See also suspension and debarment requirements at 2 CFR part 180 as well as individual Federal agency suspension and debarment regulations in title 2 of the Code of Federal Regulations.

(2) In accordance 41 U.S.C. 2313, the Federal awarding agency is required to review the non-public segment of the OMB-designated integrity and performance system accessible through SAM (currently the Federal Awardee Performance and Integrity Information System (FAPIIS)) prior to making a Federal award where the Federal share is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold, defined in 41 U.S.C. 134, over the period of performance. As required by Public Law 112-239, National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013, prior to making a Federal award, the Federal awarding agency must consider all of the information available through FAPIIS with regard to the applicant and any immediate highest level owner, predecessor (*i.e.;* a non-Federal entity that is replaced by a successor), or subsidiary, identified for that applicant in FAPIIS, if applicable. At a minimum, the information in the system for a prior Federal award recipient must demonstrate a satisfactory record of executing programs or activities under Federal grants, cooperative agreements, or procurement awards; and integrity and business ethics. The Federal awarding agency may make a Federal award to a recipient who does not fully meet these standards, if it is determined that the information is not relevant to the current Federal award under consideration or there are specific conditions that can appropriately mitigate the effects of the non-Federal entity's risk in accordance with ยง 200.208.

(b) *Risk evaluation.* (1) The Federal awarding agency must have in place a framework for evaluating the risks posed by applicants before they receive Federal awards. This evaluation may incorporate results of the evaluation of the applicant's eligibility or the quality of its application. If the Federal awarding agency determines that a Federal award will be made, special conditions that correspond to the degree of risk assessed may be applied to the Federal award. Criteria to be evaluated must be described in the announcement of funding opportunity described in ยง 200.204.

(2) In evaluating risks posed by applicants, the Federal awarding agency may use a risk-based approach and may consider any items such as the following:

(i) *Financial stability.* Financial stability;

(ii) *Management systems and standards.* Quality of management systems and ability to meet the management standards prescribed in this part;

(iii) *History of performance.* The applicant's record in managing Federal awards, if it is a prior recipient of Federal awards, including timeliness of compliance with applicable reporting requirements, conformance to the terms and conditions of previous Federal awards, and if applicable, the extent to which any previously awarded amounts will be expended prior to future awards;

(iv) *Audit reports and findings.* Reports and findings from audits performed under subpart F of this part or the reports and findings of any other available audits; and

(v) *Ability to effectively implement requirements.* The applicant's ability to effectively implement statutory, regulatory, or other requirements imposed on non-Federal entities.

(c) *Risk-based requirements adjustment.* The Federal awarding agency may adjust requirements when a risk-evaluation indicates that it may be merited either pre-award or post-award.

(d) *Suspension and debarment compliance.* (1) The Federal awarding agency must comply with the guidelines on governmentwide suspension and debarment in 2 CFR part 180, and must require non-Federal entities to comply with these provisions. These provisions restrict Federal awards, subawards and contracts with certain parties that are debarred, suspended or otherwise excluded from or ineligible for participation in Federal programs or activities.