cfr/title-20-Employees-Benefits/chapter-III-Social-Security-Administration/part-402-Availability-Information-Records-Public/section-402.95.md, before:

##### § 402.95 Exemption five for withholding records: Internal memoranda. #####

This exemption covers internal government communications and notes that fall within a generally recognized evidentiary privilege. Internal government communications include an agency's communications with an outside consultant or other outside person, with a court, or with Congress, when those communications are for a purpose similar to the purpose of privileged intra-agency communications. Some of the most-commonly applicable privileges are described in the following paragraphs:

(a) *Deliberative process privilege.* This privilege protects predecisional deliberative communications. A communication is protected under this privilege if it was made before a final decision was reached on some question of policy and if it expressed recommendations or opinions on that question. The purpose of the privilege is to prevent injury to the quality of the agency decisionmaking process by encouraging open and frank internal policy discussions, by avoiding premature disclosure of policies not yet adopted, and by avoiding the public confusion that might result from disclosing reasons that were not in fact the ultimate grounds for an agency's decision. Purely factual material in a deliberative document is within this privilege only if it is inextricably intertwined with the deliberative portions so that it cannot reasonably be segregated, if it would reveal the nature of the deliberative portions, or if its disclosure would in some other way make possible an intrusion into the decisionmaking process. We will release purely factual material in a deliberative document unless that material is otherwise exempt. The privilege continues to protect predecisional documents even after a decision is made.

(b) *Attorney work product privilege.* This privilege protects documents prepared by or for an agency, or by or for its representative (typically, our attorneys) in anticipation of litigation or for trial. It includes documents prepared for purposes of administrative adjudications as well as court litigation. It includes documents prepared by program offices as well as by attorneys. It includes factual material in such documents as well as material revealing opinions and tactics. Finally, the privilege continues to protect the documents even after the litigation is closed.

(c) *Attorney-client communication privilege.* This privilege protects confidential communications between a lawyer and an employee or agent of the Government where there is an attorney-client relationship between them (typically, where the lawyer is acting as attorney for the agency and the employee is communicating on behalf of the agency) and where the employee has communicated information to the attorney in confidence in order to obtain legal advice or assistance.

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2025-01-17 issue
Title: 5: Administrative Personnel - Sections changed: 17
Title: 14: Aeronautics and Space - Sections changed: 35
Title: 7: Agriculture - Sections changed: 49
Title: 8: Aliens and Nationality - Sections changed: 9
Title: 12: Banks and Banking - Sections changed: 21
Title: 13: Business Credit and Assistance - Sections changed: 3
Title: 15: Commerce and Foreign Trade - Sections changed: 2
Title: 16: Commercial Practices - Sections changed: 1
Title: 17: Commodity and Securities Exchanges - Sections changed: 2
Title: 19: Customs Duties - Sections changed: 61
Title: 34: Education - Sections changed: 8
Title: 20: Employees' Benefits - Sections changed: 33
Title: 10: Energy - Sections changed: 8
Title: 48: Federal Acquisition Regulations System - Sections changed: 110
Title: 21: Food and Drugs - Sections changed: 5
Title: 22: Foreign Relations - Sections changed: 2
Title: 25: Indians - Sections changed: 1
Title: 26: Internal Revenue - Sections changed: 3
Title: 28: Judicial Administration - Sections changed: 4
Title: 29: Labor - Sections changed: 57
Title: 30: Mineral Resources - Sections changed: 2
Title: 31: Money and Finance: Treasury - Sections changed: 1
Title: 32: National Defense - Sections changed: 1
Title: 33: Navigation and Navigable Waters - Sections changed: 2
Title: 39: Postal Service - Sections changed: 2
Title: 40: Protection of Environment - Sections changed: 139
Title: 42: Public Health - Sections changed: 1
Title: 43: Public Lands: Interior - Sections changed: 2
Title: 45: Public Welfare - Sections changed: 1
Title: 46: Shipping - Sections changed: 301
Title: 47: Telecommunication - Sections changed: 3
Title: 49: Transportation - Sections changed: 8

cfr/title-20-Employees-Benefits/chapter-III-Social-Security-Administration/part-402-Availability-Information-Records-Public/section-402.95.md, after:

##### § 402.95 Release of records. #####

(a) *Records previously released.* If we have released a record, or a part of a record, to others in the past, we will ordinarily release it to the requester, as well. However, we will not release it to a requester if a statute forbids this disclosure; an exemption applies that was not previously applicable; or if the previous release was unauthorized.

(b) *Withholding records.* Section 552(b) of the FOIA explains the nine exemptions under which we may withhold records requested under the FOIA. Within §§ 402.115 through 402.150, we describe the FOIA exemptions and explain how we apply them to disclosure determinations. In some cases, more than one exemption may apply to the same document. Section 552(b) of the FOIA, while providing nine exemptions from mandatory disclosure, does not itself provide any assurance of confidentiality by the agency.

(c) *FOIA library.* If the record(s) requested are already publicly available, either in our electronic FOIA library or elsewhere online, such as at *www.ssa.gov,* we will direct the requester to the publicly available record(s).

(d) *Poor copy.* If we cannot make a legible copy of a record to be released, we do not attempt to reconstruct it. Instead, we furnish the best copy possible and note its poor quality in our reply.
