cfr/title-19-Customs-Duties/chapter-III-International-Trade-Administration-Department-Commerce/part-351-Antidumping-Countervailing-Duties/subpart-C-Information-Argument/section-351.301.md, before:

##### § 351.301 Time limits for submission of factual information. #####

Link to an amendment published at 89 FR 20835, Mar. 25, 2024.

(a) *Introduction.* This section sets forth the time limits for submitting factual information, as defined by § 351.102(b)(21). The Department obtains most of its factual information in antidumping and countervailing duty proceedings from submissions made by interested parties during the course of the proceeding. Notwithstanding paragraph (b) of this section, the Secretary may request any person to submit factual information at any time during a proceeding or provide additional opportunities to submit factual information. Section 351.302 sets forth the procedures for requesting an extension of such time limits, and provides that, unless expressly precluded by statute, the Secretary may, for good cause, extend any time limit established in the Department's regulations. Section 351.303 contains the procedural rules regarding filing (including procedures for filing on non-business days), format, translation, service, and certification of documents. In the Secretary's written request to an interested party for a response to a questionnaire or for other factual information, the Secretary will specify the following: The time limit for the response; the information to be provided; the form and manner in which the interested party must submit the information; and that failure to submit the requested information in the requested form and manner by the date specified may result in use of the facts available under section 776 of the Act and § 351.308.

(b) *Submission of factual information.* Every submission of factual information must be accompanied by a written explanation identifying the subsection of § 351.102(b)(21) under which the information is being submitted.

(1) If an interested party states that the information is submitted under § 351.102(b)(21)(v), the party must explain why the information does not satisfy the definitions described in § 351.102(b)(21)(i)-(iv).

(2) If the factual information is being submitted to rebut, clarify, or correct factual information on the record, the submitter must provide a written explanation identifying the information which is already on the record that the factual information seeks to rebut, clarify, or correct, including the name of the interested party that submitted the information and the date on which the information was submitted.

(c) *Time limits.* The type of factual information determines the time limit for submission to the Department.

(1) *Factual information submitted in response to questionnaires.* During a proceeding, the Secretary may issue to any person questionnaires, which includes both initial and supplemental questionnaires. The Secretary will not consider or retain in the official record of the proceeding unsolicited questionnaire responses, except as provided under § 351.204(d)(2), or untimely filed questionnaire responses. The Secretary will reject any untimely filed or unsolicited questionnaire response and provide, to the extent practicable, written notice stating the reasons for rejection (see § 351.302(d)).

(i) Initial questionnaire responses are due 30 days from the date of receipt of such questionnaire. The time limit for response to individual sections of the questionnaire, if the Secretary requests a separate response to such sections, may be less than the 30 days allotted for response to the full questionnaire. In general, the date of receipt will be considered to be seven days from the date on which the initial questionnaire was transmitted.

(ii) Supplemental questionnaire responses are due on the date specified by the Secretary.

(iii) A notification by an interested party, under section 782(c)(1) of the Act, of difficulties in submitting information in response to a questionnaire issued by the Secretary is to be submitted in writing within 14 days after the date of the questionnaire or, if the questionnaire is due in 14 days or less, within the time specified by the Secretary.

(iv) A respondent interested party may request in writing that the Secretary conduct a questionnaire presentation. The Secretary may conduct a questionnaire presentation if the Secretary notifies the government of the affected country and that government does not object.

(v) *Factual information submitted to rebut, clarify, or correct questionnaire responses.* Within 14 days after an initial questionnaire response and within 10 days after a supplemental questionnaire response has been filed with the Department, an interested party other than the original submitter is permitted one opportunity to submit factual information to rebut, clarify, or correct factual information contained in the questionnaire response. Within seven days of the filing of such rebuttal, clarification, or correction to a questionnaire response, the original submitter of the questionnaire response is permitted one opportunity to submit factual information to rebut, clarify, or correct factual information submitted in the interested party's rebuttal, clarification or correction. The Secretary will reject any untimely filed rebuttal, clarification, or correction submission and provide, to the extent practicable, written notice stating the reasons for rejection (see § 351.302). If insufficient time remains before the due date for the final determination or final results of review, the Secretary may specify shorter deadlines under this section.

(2) *Factual information submitted in support of allegations.* Factual information submitted in support of allegations must be accompanied by a summary, not to exceed five pages, of the allegation and supporting data.

(i) *Market viability and the basis for determining normal value.* Allegations regarding market viability in an antidumping investigation or administrative review, including the exceptions in § 351.404(c)(2), are due, with all supporting factual information, 10 days after the respondent interested party files the response to the relevant section of the questionnaire, unless the Secretary alters this time limit.

(ii) *Sales at prices below the cost of production.* Allegations of sales at prices below the cost of production made by the petitioner or other domestic interested party are due within:

(A) In an antidumping investigation, on a country-wide basis, 20 days after the date on which the initial questionnaire was issued to any person, unless the Secretary alters this time limit; or, on a company-specific basis, 20 days after a respondent interested party files the response to the relevant section of the questionnaire, unless the relevant questionnaire response is, in the Secretary's view, incomplete, in which case the Secretary will determine the time limit;

(B) In an administrative review, new shipper review, or changed circumstances review, on a company-specific basis, 20 days after a respondent interested party files the response to the relevant section of the questionnaire, unless the relevant questionnaire response is, in the Secretary's view, incomplete, in which case the Secretary will determine the time limit; or

(C) In an expedited antidumping review, on a company-specific basis, 10 days after the date of publication of the notice of initiation of the review.

(iii) *Purchases of major inputs from an affiliated party at prices below the affiliated party's cost of production.* An allegation of purchases of major inputs from an affiliated party at prices below the affiliated party's cost of production made by the petitioner or other domestic interested party is due within 20 days after a respondent interested party files the response to the relevant section of the questionnaire, unless the relevant questionnaire response is, in the Secretary's view, incomplete, in which case the Secretary will determine the time limits.

(iv) *Countervailable subsidy; upstream subsidy.* A countervailable subsidy allegation made by the petitioner or other domestic interested party is due no later than:

(A) In a countervailing duty investigation, 40 days before the scheduled date of the preliminary determination, unless the Secretary extends this time limit for good cause; or

(B) In an administrative review, new shipper review, or changed circumstances review, 20 days after all responses to the initial questionnaire are filed with the Department, unless the Secretary alters this time limit.

(C) Exception for upstream subsidy allegation in an investigation. In a countervailing duty investigation, an allegation of upstream subsidies made by the petitioner or other domestic interested party is due no later than 60 days after the date of the preliminary determination.

(v) *Other allegations.* An interested party may submit factual information in support of other allegations not specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(i)-(iv) of this section. Upon receipt of factual information under this subsection, the Secretary will issue a memorandum accepting or rejecting the information and, to the extent practicable, will provide written notice stating the reasons for rejection. If the Secretary accepts the information, the Secretary will issue a schedule providing deadlines for submission of factual information to rebut, clarify or correct the factual information.

(vi) *Rebuttal, clarification, or correction of factual information submitted in support of allegations.* An interested party is permitted one opportunity to submit factual information to rebut, clarify, or correct factual information submitted in support of allegations 10 days after the date such factual information is filed with the Department.

(3) *Factual information submitted to value factors under § 351.408(c) or to measure the adequacy of remuneration under § 351.511(a)(2).*

(i) *Antidumping or countervailing duty investigations.* All submissions of factual information to value factors of production under § 351.408(c) in an antidumping investigation, or to measure the adequacy of remuneration under § 351.511(a)(2) in a countervailing duty investigation, are due no later than 30 days before the scheduled date of the preliminary determination;

(ii) *Administrative review, new shipper review, or changed circumstances review.* All submissions of factual information to value factors under § 351.408(c), or to measure the adequacy of remuneration under § 351.511(a)(2), are due no later than 30 days before the scheduled date of the preliminary results of review; and

(iii) *Expedited antidumping review.* All submissions of factual information to value factors under § 351.408(c) are due on a date specified by the Secretary.

(iv) *Rebuttal, clarification, or correction of factual information submitted to value factors under**§ 351.408(c) or to measure the adequacy of remuneration under § 351.511(a)(2).* An interested party is permitted one opportunity to submit publicly available information to rebut, clarify, or correct such factual information submitted pursuant to § 351.408(c) or § 351.511(a)(2) 10 days after the date such factual information is filed with the Department. An interested party may not submit additional, previously absent-from-the-record alternative surrogate value information under this paragraph (c)(3)(iv). Additionally, all factual information submitted under this paragraph (c)(3)(iv) must be accompanied by a written explanation identifying what information already on the record of the ongoing proceeding the factual information is rebutting, clarifying, or correcting. Information submitted to rebut, clarify, or correct factual information submitted pursuant to § 351.408(c) will not be used to value factors under § 351.408(c).

(4) *Factual information placed on the record of the proceeding by the Department.* The Department may place factual information on the record of the proceeding at any time. An interested party is permitted one opportunity to submit factual information to rebut, clarify, or correct factual information placed on the record of the proceeding by the Department by a date specified by the Secretary.

(5) *Factual information not directly responsive to or relating to paragraphs (c)(1)-(4) of this section).* Paragraph (c)(5) applies to factual information other than that described in § 351.102(b)(21)(i)-(iv). The Secretary will reject information filed under paragraph (c)(5) that satisfies the definition of information described in § 351.102(b)(21)(i)-(iv) and that was not filed within the deadlines specified above. All submissions of factual information under this subsection are required to clearly explain why the information contained therein does not meet the definition of factual information described in § 351.102(b)(21)(i)-(iv), and must provide a detailed narrative of exactly what information is contained in the submission and why it should be considered. The deadline for filing such information will be 30 days before the scheduled date of the preliminary determination in an investigation, or 14 days before verification, whichever is earlier, and 30 days before the scheduled date of the preliminary results in an administrative review, or 14 days before verification, whichever is earlier.

(i) Upon receipt of factual information under this subsection, the Secretary will issue a memorandum accepting or rejecting the information and, to the extent practicable, will provide written notice stating the reasons for rejection.

(ii) If the Secretary accepts the information, the Secretary will issue a schedule providing deadlines for submission of factual information to rebut, clarify or correct the factual information.

[78 FR 21254, Apr. 10, 2013, as amended at 88 FR 67078, Sept. 29, 2023]

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2024-04-24 issue
Title: 14: Aeronautics and Space - Sections changed: 12
Title: 7: Agriculture - Sections changed: 3
Title: 19: Customs Duties - Sections changed: 35
Title: 20: Employees' Benefits - Sections changed: 1
Title: 10: Energy - Sections changed: 1
Title: 22: Foreign Relations - Sections changed: 1
Title: 28: Judicial Administration - Sections changed: 2
Title: 30: Mineral Resources - Sections changed: 28
Title: 42: Public Health - Sections changed: 2

cfr/title-19-Customs-Duties/chapter-III-International-Trade-Administration-Department-Commerce/part-351-Antidumping-Countervailing-Duties/subpart-C-Information-Argument/section-351.301.md, after:

##### § 351.301 Time limits for submission of factual information. #####

(a) *Introduction.* This section sets forth the time limits for submitting factual information, as defined by § 351.102(b)(21). The Department obtains most of its factual information in antidumping and countervailing duty proceedings from submissions made by interested parties during the course of the proceeding. Notwithstanding paragraph (b) of this section, the Secretary may request any person to submit factual information at any time during a proceeding or provide additional opportunities to submit factual information. Section 351.302 sets forth the procedures for requesting an extension of such time limits, and provides that, unless expressly precluded by statute, the Secretary may, for good cause, extend any time limit established in the Department's regulations. Section 351.303 contains the procedural rules regarding filing (including procedures for filing on non-business days), format, translation, service, and certification of documents. In the Secretary's written request to an interested party for a response to a questionnaire or for other factual information, the Secretary will specify the following: The time limit for the response; the information to be provided; the form and manner in which the interested party must submit the information; and that failure to submit the requested information in the requested form and manner by the date specified may result in use of the facts available under section 776 of the Act and § 351.308.

(b) *Submission of factual information.* Every submission of factual information must be accompanied by a written explanation identifying the subsection of § 351.102(b)(21) under which the information is being submitted.

(1) If an interested party states that the information is submitted under § 351.102(b)(21)(v), the party must explain why the information does not satisfy the definitions described in § 351.102(b)(21)(i)-(iv).

(2) If the factual information is being submitted to rebut, clarify, or correct factual information on the record, the submitter must provide a written explanation identifying the information which is already on the record that the factual information seeks to rebut, clarify, or correct, including the name of the interested party that submitted the information and the date on which the information was submitted.

(c) *Time limits.* The type of factual information determines the time limit for submission to the Department.

(1) *Factual information submitted in response to questionnaires.* During a proceeding, the Secretary may issue to any person questionnaires, which includes both initial and supplemental questionnaires. The Secretary will not consider or retain in the official record of the proceeding unsolicited questionnaire responses, except as provided under § 351.204(d)(2), or untimely filed questionnaire responses. The Secretary will reject any untimely filed or unsolicited questionnaire response and provide, to the extent practicable, written notice stating the reasons for rejection (see § 351.302(d)).

(i) Initial questionnaire responses are due 30 days from the date of receipt of such questionnaire. The time limit for response to individual sections of the questionnaire, if the Secretary requests a separate response to such sections, may be less than the 30 days allotted for response to the full questionnaire. In general, the date of receipt will be considered to be seven days from the date on which the initial questionnaire was transmitted.

(ii) Supplemental questionnaire responses are due on the date specified by the Secretary.

(iii) A notification by an interested party, under section 782(c)(1) of the Act, of difficulties in submitting information in response to a questionnaire issued by the Secretary is to be submitted in writing within 14 days after the date of the questionnaire or, if the questionnaire is due in 14 days or less, within the time specified by the Secretary.

(iv) A respondent interested party may request in writing that the Secretary conduct a questionnaire presentation. The Secretary may conduct a questionnaire presentation if the Secretary notifies the government of the affected country and that government does not object.

(v) *Factual information submitted to rebut, clarify, or correct questionnaire responses.* Within 14 days after an initial questionnaire response and within 10 days after a supplemental questionnaire response has been filed with the Department, an interested party other than the original submitter is permitted one opportunity to submit factual information to rebut, clarify, or correct factual information contained in the questionnaire response. Within seven days of the filing of such rebuttal, clarification, or correction to a questionnaire response, the original submitter of the questionnaire response is permitted one opportunity to submit factual information to rebut, clarify, or correct factual information submitted in the interested party's rebuttal, clarification or correction. The Secretary will reject any untimely filed rebuttal, clarification, or correction submission and provide, to the extent practicable, written notice stating the reasons for rejection (see § 351.302). If insufficient time remains before the due date for the final determination or final results of review, the Secretary may specify shorter deadlines under this section.

(2) *Factual information submitted in support of allegations.* Factual information submitted in support of allegations must be accompanied by a summary, not to exceed five pages, of the allegation and supporting data.

(i) *Market viability and the basis for determining normal value.* Allegations regarding market viability in an antidumping investigation or administrative review, including the exceptions in § 351.404(c)(2), are due, with all supporting factual information, 10 days after the respondent interested party files the response to the relevant section of the questionnaire, unless the Secretary alters this time limit.

(ii) *Sales at prices below the cost of production.* Allegations of sales at prices below the cost of production made by the petitioner or other domestic interested party are due within:

(A) In an antidumping investigation, on a country-wide basis, 20 days after the date on which the initial questionnaire was issued to any person, unless the Secretary alters this time limit; or, on a company-specific basis, 20 days after a respondent interested party files the response to the relevant section of the questionnaire, unless the relevant questionnaire response is, in the Secretary's view, incomplete, in which case the Secretary will determine the time limit;

(B) In an administrative review, new shipper review, or changed circumstances review, on a company-specific basis, 20 days after a respondent interested party files the response to the relevant section of the questionnaire, unless the relevant questionnaire response is, in the Secretary's view, incomplete, in which case the Secretary will determine the time limit; or

(C) In an expedited antidumping review, on a company-specific basis, 10 days after the date of publication of the notice of initiation of the review.

(iii) *Purchases of major inputs from an affiliated party at prices below the affiliated party's cost of production.* An allegation of purchases of major inputs from an affiliated party at prices below the affiliated party's cost of production made by the petitioner or other domestic interested party is due within 20 days after a respondent interested party files the response to the relevant section of the questionnaire, unless the relevant questionnaire response is, in the Secretary's view, incomplete, in which case the Secretary will determine the time limits.

(iv) *Countervailable subsidy; upstream subsidy.* A countervailable subsidy allegation made by the petitioner or other domestic interested party is due no later than:

(A) In a countervailing duty investigation, 40 days before the scheduled date of the preliminary determination, unless the Secretary extends this time limit for good cause; or

(B) In an administrative review, new shipper review, or changed circumstances review, 20 days after all responses to the initial questionnaire are filed with the Department, unless the Secretary alters this time limit.

(C) Exception for upstream subsidy allegation in an investigation. In a countervailing duty investigation, an allegation of upstream subsidies made by the petitioner or other domestic interested party is due no later than 60 days after the date of the preliminary determination.

(v) *Other allegations.* An interested party may submit factual information in support of other allegations not specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(i)-(iv) of this section. Upon receipt of factual information under this subsection, the Secretary will issue a memorandum accepting or rejecting the information and, to the extent practicable, will provide written notice stating the reasons for rejection. If the Secretary accepts the information, the Secretary will issue a schedule providing deadlines for submission of factual information to rebut, clarify or correct the factual information.

(vi) *Rebuttal, clarification, or correction of factual information submitted in support of allegations.* An interested party is permitted one opportunity to submit factual information to rebut, clarify, or correct factual information submitted in support of allegations 10 days after the date such factual information is filed with the Department.

(3) *Factual information submitted to value factors under § 351.408(c) or to measure the adequacy of remuneration under § 351.511(a)(2).*

(i) *Antidumping or countervailing duty investigations.* All submissions of factual information to value factors of production under § 351.408(c) in an antidumping investigation, or to measure the adequacy of remuneration under § 351.511(a)(2) in a countervailing duty investigation, are due no later than 30 days before the scheduled date of the preliminary determination;

(ii) *Administrative review, new shipper review, or changed circumstances review.* All submissions of factual information to value factors under § 351.408(c), or to measure the adequacy of remuneration under § 351.511(a)(2), are due no later than 30 days before the scheduled date of the preliminary results of review; and

(iii) *Expedited antidumping review.* All submissions of factual information to value factors under § 351.408(c) are due on a date specified by the Secretary.

(iv) *Rebuttal, clarification, or correction of factual information submitted to value factors under**§ 351.408(c) or to measure the adequacy of remuneration under § 351.511(a)(2).* An interested party is permitted one opportunity to submit publicly available information to rebut, clarify, or correct such factual information submitted pursuant to § 351.408(c) or § 351.511(a)(2) 10 days after the date such factual information is filed with the Department. An interested party may not submit additional, previously absent-from-the-record alternative surrogate value information under this paragraph (c)(3)(iv). Additionally, all factual information submitted under this paragraph (c)(3)(iv) must be accompanied by a written explanation identifying what information already on the record of the ongoing proceeding the factual information is rebutting, clarifying, or correcting. Information submitted to rebut, clarify, or correct factual information submitted pursuant to § 351.408(c) will not be used to value factors under § 351.408(c).

(4) *Factual information placed on the record of the proceeding by the Department.* The Department may place factual information on the record of the proceeding at any time. An interested party is permitted one opportunity to submit factual information to rebut, clarify, or correct factual information placed on the record of the proceeding by the Department by a date specified by the Secretary.

(5) *Factual information not directly responsive to or relating to paragraphs (c)(1)-(4) of this section).* Paragraph (c)(5) applies to factual information other than that described in § 351.102(b)(21)(i)-(iv). The Secretary will reject information filed under paragraph (c)(5) that satisfies the definition of information described in § 351.102(b)(21)(i)-(iv) and that was not filed within the deadlines specified above. All submissions of factual information under this subsection are required to clearly explain why the information contained therein does not meet the definition of factual information described in § 351.102(b)(21)(i)-(iv), and must provide a detailed narrative of exactly what information is contained in the submission and why it should be considered. The deadline for filing such information will be 30 days before the scheduled date of the preliminary determination in an investigation, or 14 days before verification, whichever is earlier, and 30 days before the scheduled date of the preliminary results in an administrative review, or 14 days before verification, whichever is earlier.

(i) Upon receipt of factual information under this subsection, the Secretary will issue a memorandum accepting or rejecting the information and, to the extent practicable, will provide written notice stating the reasons for rejection.

(ii) If the Secretary accepts the information, the Secretary will issue a schedule providing deadlines for submission of factual information to rebut, clarify or correct the factual information.

(6) *Notices of subsequent authority*—(i) *In general.* If a United States Federal court issues a decision, or the Secretary in another segment or proceeding issues a determination, that an interested party believes is directly relevant to an issue in an ongoing segment of the proceeding, that interested party may submit a Notice of Subsequent Authority with the Secretary. Responsive comments and factual information to rebut or clarify the Notice of Subsequent Authority must be submitted by interested parties no later than five days after the submission of a Notice of Subsequent Authority.

(ii) *Timing restrictions for consideration.* The Secretary will consider and address a Notice of Subsequent Authority in its final determinations or final results which is submitted no later than 30 days after the alleged subsequent authority was issued and no later than 30 days before the deadline for issuing the final determination or results. Rebuttal submissions must be filed no later than 25 days before the deadline for issuing the final determinations or results. Given statutory deadlines for administrative proceedings, the Secretary may be unable to consider and address the arguments and applicability of alleged subsequent authorities adequately in a final determination or final results if a Notice of Subsequent Authority or rebuttal submission is submitted later in the segment of the proceeding.

(iii) *Contents of a notice of subsequent authority and responsive submissions.* A Notice of Subsequent Authority must identify the Federal court decision or determination by the Secretary in another segment or proceeding that is alleged to be authoritative to an issue in the ongoing segment of the proceeding, provide the date the decision or determination was issued, explain the relevance of that decision or determination to an issue in the ongoing segment of the proceeding, and be accompanied by a complete copy of the Federal court decision or agency determination. Responsive comments must directly address the contents of the Notice of Subsequent Authority and must explain how the responsive comments and any accompanying factual information rebut or clarify the Notice of Subsequent Authority.

[78 FR 21254, Apr. 10, 2013, as amended at 88 FR 67078, Sept. 29, 2023; 89 FR 20835, Mar. 25, 2024]
