##### ยง 634.45 Point system application. #####

(a) The Services and DLA are required to use the point system and procedures prescribed in this section without change.

(b) The point system in table 5-2 of this part applies to all operators of U.S. Government motor vehicles, on or off Federal property. The system also applies to violators reported to installation officials in accordance with ยง 634.32.

(c) Points will be assessed when the person is found to have committed a violation and the finding is by either the unit commander, civilian supervisor, a military or civilian court (including a U.S. Magistrate), or by payment of fine, forfeiture of pay or allowances, or posted bond, or collateral.

Table 5-2 of Part 634 Point Assessment for Moving Traffic Violations (See Note 1) A. Violation: Reckless driving (willful and wanton disregard for the safety of persons or property). Points assessed: 6 B. Violation: Owner knowingly and willfully permitting a physically impaired person to operate the owner's motor vehicle. Points assessed: 6 C. Violation: Fleeing the scene (hit and run)-property damage only. Points assessed: 6 D. Violation: Driving vehicle while impaired (blood-alcohol content more than 0.05 percent and less than 0.08 percent). Points assessed: 6 E. Violation: Speed contests. Points assessed: 6 F. Violation: Speed too fast for conditions. Points assessed: 2 G. Violation: Speed too slow for traffic conditions, and/or impeding the flow of traffic, causing potential safety hazard. Points assessed: 2 H. Violation: Failure of operator or occupants to use available restraint system devices while moving (operator assessed points). Points assessed: 2 I. Violation: Failure to properly restrain children in a child restraint system while moving (when child is 4 years of age or younger or the weight of child does not exceed 45 pounds). Points assessed: 2 J. Violation: One to 10 miles per hour over posted speed limit. Points assessed: 3 K. Violation: Over 10 but not more than 15 miles per hour above posted speed limit. Points assessed: 4 L. Violation: Over 15 but not more than 20 miles per hour above posted speed limit. Points assessed: 5 M. Violation: Over 20 miles per hour above posted speed limit. Points assessed: 6 N. Violation: Following too close. Points assessed: 4 O. Violation: Failure to yield right of way to emergency vehicle. Points assessed: 4 P. Violation: Failure to stop for school bus or school-crossing signals. Points assessed: 4 Q. Violation: Failure to obey traffic signals or traffic instructions of an enforcement officer or traffic warden; or any official regulatory traffic sign or device requiring a full stop or yield of right of way; denying entry; or requiring direction of traffic. Points assessed: 4 R. Violation: Improper passing. Points assessed: 4 S. Violation: Failure to yield (no official sign involved). Points assessed: 4 T. Violation: Improper turning movements (no official sign involved). Points assessed: 3 U. Violation: Wearing of headphones/earphones while driving motor vehicles (two or more wheels). Points assessed: 3 V. Violation: Failure to wear an approved helmet and/or reflectorized vest while operating or riding on a motorcycle, MOPED, or a three or four-wheel vehicle powered by a motorcycle-like engine. Points assessed: 3 W. Violation: Improper overtaking. Points assessed: 3 X. Violation: Other moving violations (involving driver behavior only). Points assessed: 3 Y. Violation: Operating an unsafe vehicle. (See Note 2). Points assessed: 2 Z. Violation: Driver involved in accident is deemed responsible (only added to points assessed for specific offenses). Points assessed: 1 Notes

1. When two or more violations are committed on a single occasion, points may be assessed for each individual violation.

2. This measure should be used for other than minor vehicle safety defects or when a driver or registrant fails to correct a minor defect (for example, a burned out headlight not replaced within the grace period on a warning ticket).