##### ยง 700.847 Responsibility of a master of an in-service ship of the Military Sealift Command. #####

(a) In an in-service ship of the Military Sealift Command, the master's responsibility is absolute, except when, and to the extent, relieved therefrom by competent authority. The authority of the master is commensurate with the master's responsibility. The master is responsible for the safety of the ship and all persons on board. He or she is responsible for the safe navigation and technical operation of the ship and has paramount authority over all persons on board. He or she is responsible for the preparation of the abandon ship bill and has exclusive authority to order the ship abandoned. The master may, using discretion, and when not contrary to law or regulation, delegate authority for operation of shipboard functions to competent subordinates. However, such delegation of authority shall in no way relieve the master of continued responsibility for the safety, well-being, and efficiency of the ship.

(b) All orders and instructions of the master shall be in accordance with appropriate laws of the United States, and all applicable orders and regulations of the Navy, Military Sealift Command, and the Office of Personnel Management. A master who departs from the orders or instructions of competent authority or takes official action contrary to such orders or instructions, shall report immediately the circumstances to the authority from whom the prior orders or instructions were received.