##### § 200.100 Purpose. #####

Link to an amendment published at 85 FR 49536, Aug. 13, 2020.

(a)(1) This part establishes uniform administrative requirements, cost principles, and audit requirements for Federal awards to non-Federal entities, as described in § 200.101 Applicability. Federal awarding agencies must not impose additional or inconsistent requirements, except as provided in §§ 200.102 Exceptions and 200.210 Information contained in a Federal award, or unless specifically required by Federal statute, regulation, or Executive Order.

(2) This part provides the basis for a systematic and periodic collection and uniform submission by Federal agencies of information on all Federal financial assistance programs to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB). It also establishes Federal policies related to the delivery of this information to the public, including through the use of electronic media. It prescribes the manner in which General Services Administration (GSA), OMB, and Federal agencies that administer Federal financial assistance programs are to carry out their statutory responsibilities under the Federal Program Information Act (31 U.S.C. 6101-6106).

(b) *Administrative requirements.* Subparts B through D of this part set forth the uniform administrative requirements for grant and cooperative agreements, including the requirements for Federal awarding agency management of Federal grant programs before the Federal award has been made, and the requirements Federal awarding agencies may impose on non-Federal entities in the Federal award.

(c) *Cost Principles.* Subpart E - Cost Principles of this part establishes principles for determining the allowable costs incurred by non-Federal entities under Federal awards. The principles are for the purpose of cost determination and are not intended to identify the circumstances or dictate the extent of Federal Government participation in the financing of a particular program or project. The principles are designed to provide that Federal awards bear their fair share of cost recognized under these principles except where restricted or prohibited by statute.

(d) *Single Audit Requirements and Audit Follow-up.* Subpart F - Audit Requirements of this part is issued pursuant to the Single Audit Act Amendments of 1996, (31 U.S.C. 7501-7507). It sets forth standards for obtaining consistency and uniformity among Federal agencies for the audit of non-Federal entities expending Federal awards. These provisions also provide the policies and procedures for Federal awarding agencies and pass-through entities when using the results of these audits.

(e) For OMB guidance to Federal awarding agencies on Challenges and Prizes, please see M-10-11 Guidance on the Use of Challenges and Prizes to Promote Open Government, issued March 8, 2010, or its successor.