##### ยง 154.35 Personal data provided by the subject of the investigation. #####

(a) To conduct the required investigation, it is necessary that the investigative agency be provided certain relevant data concerning the subject of the investigation. The Privacy Act of 1974 requires that, to the greatest extent practicable, personal information shall be obtained directly from the subject individual when the information may result in adverse determinations affecting an individual's rights, benefits, and privileges under Federal programs.

(b) Accordingly, it is incumbent upon the subject of each personnel security investigation to provide the personal information required by this part. At a minimum, the individual shall complete the appropriate investigative forms, provide fingerprints of a quality acceptable to the FBI, and execute a signed release, as necessary, authorizing custodians of police, credit, education, employment, and medical and similar records, to provide relevant record information to the investigative agency. When the FBI returns a fingerprint card indicating that the quality of the fingerprints is not acceptable, an additional set of fingerprints will be obtained from the subject. In the event the FBI indicates that the additional fingerprints are also unacceptable, no further attempt to obtain more fingerprints need be made; this aspect of the investigation will then be processed on the basis of the name check of the FBI files. As an exception, a minimum of three attempts will be made for all Presidential Support cases, for SCI access nominations if the requester so indicates, and in those cases in which more than minor derogatory information exists. Each subject of a personnel security investigation conducted under the provisions of this part shall be furnished a Privacy Act Statement advising of the authority for obtaining the personal data, the principal purpose(s) for obtaining it, the routine uses, whether disclosure is mandatory or voluntary, the effect on the individual if it is not provided, and that subsequent use of the data may be employed as part of an aperiodic review process to evaluate continued eligibility for access to classified information.

(c) Failure to respond within the time limit prescribed by the requesting organization with the required security forms or refusal to provide or permit access to the relevant information required by this part shall result in termination of the individual's security clearance or assignment to sensitive duties utilizing the procedures of ยง 154.59 or further administrative processing of the investigative request.