##### ยง 984.50 Grade, quality and size regulations. #####

(a) *Minimum standard for inshell walnuts.* Except as provided in ยง 984.64, no handler shall handle inshell walnuts unless such walnuts are equal to or better than the requirements of U.S. No. 2 grade and baby size as defined in the then effective United States Standards for Walnuts (Juglans regia) in the Shell. This minimum standard may be modified by the Secretary on the basis of a Board recommendation or other information.

(b) *Minimum standard for shelled walnuts.* Except as provided in ยง 984.64, no handler shall handle shelled walnuts unless such walnuts are equal to or better than the requirements of the U.S. Commercial grade as defined in the then effective United States Standards for Shelled Walnuts (Juglans regia) and the minimum size shall be pieces not more than 5 percent of which will pass through a round opening6/64 inch in diameter. This minimum standard may be modified by the Secretary on the basis of a Board recommendation or other information.

(c) *Effective period.* The minimum standards established pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section and the provisions of this part relating to the administration thereof, shall continue in effect irrespective of whether the season average price for walnuts is above the parity level specified in section 2(1) of the Act.

(d) *Additional grade, size or other quality regulation.* The Board may recommend to the Secretary additional grade, size or other quality regulations, and may also recommend different regulations for different market destinations. If the Secretary finds on the basis of such recommendation or other information that such additional regulations would tend to effectuate the declared policy of the Act, he or she shall establish such regulations.

(e) *Minimum requirements for reserve.* The Board, with the approval of the Secretary, may specify the minimum kernel content and related requirements for any lot of walnuts acceptable for disposition for credit against a reserve obligation: *Provided,* That reserve walnuts exported must meet the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section if inshell, or paragraph (b) of this section if shelled.

[27 FR 9094, Sept. 13, 1962, as amended at 39 FR 35330, Oct. 1, 1974; 41 FR 31543, July 29, 1976; 73 FR 11339, Mar. 3, 2008]Effective Date Note:At 85 FR 27108, May 7, 2020, in ยง 984.50, paragraphs (e) was stayed indefinitely.