##### ยง 644.2 General. #####

(a) *Purpose.* Sections 644.2 through 644.8 describe the authorities and procedures of the Corps of Engineers relating to real estate planning and project authorization for the acquisition of land and interests therein for all water resource projects.

(b) *Applicability.* These sections are applicable to all Division and District Engineers having civil works real estate responsibilities.

(c) *River and harbor and flood control projects* - (1) *River and Harbor Projects.* The Act of Congress approved April 24, 1888 (33 U.S.C. 591) authorizes acquisition of land for river and harbor purposes. These include the construction, operation, maintenance and improvement of both natural and artificial waterways, the construction of locks and dams, dikes, bulkheads, jetties, revetment and other bank protection works, and spoil disposal dikes and retaining structures for construction and maintenance. Unless otherwise specified by Congress, local interests furnish, free of cost to the United States, all lands, easements and rights-of-way required for initial construction, operation and subsequent maintenance. A cash contribution may also be required if enhancement of land values results from disposal of spoil dredged from project areas (ER 1150-2-301 and EM 1120-2-101).

(2) *Flood control projects.* The Act of Congress approved March 1, 1917 (33 U.S.C. 701) authorizes acquisition of land for flood control purposes, and section 2 of the Act of Congress approved June 28, 1938, as amended (33 U.S.C. 701c-1), authorizes the acquisition of land and interests therein for dam and reservoir projects, channel improvements, and rectification projects for flood control at Federal expense. Dam, reservoir and lake projects are generally constructed entirely at the expense of the United States and are maintained and operated with the use of Federal funds. Local interests are not required to furnish lands, easements and rights-of-way for dam and reservoir projects, unless specifically authorized by law for small reservoirs which provide localized flood protection (EM 1120-2-101). For local flood protection projects, except channel improvement or channel rectification projects authorized by the Flood Control Acts of 1936, 1937 and 1938, local interests must provide, without cost to the United States, all necessary lands, easements, and rights-of-way. They must also hold and save the United States free from damages due to the construction, operation and maintenance of the project, except where such damages are due to the fault or negligence of the United States or its contractors, and maintain and operate all the works after completion, in accordance with regulations prescribed by the Secretary of the Army. Channel improvement and channel rectification projects authorized by the Acts of 1936, 1937 and 1938 are built entirely at Federal expense and no local cooperation is required. Exceptions to these rules are provided by law in the case of certain specific projects such as hurricane protection, shore protection, beach erosion control or other purposes. As in river and harbor projects, a cash contribution may also be required if enhancement of land values results from disposal of spoil dredged from project areas (ER 1150-2-301 and EM 1120-2-101).

(d) *The navigational servitude.* As a general rule the United States does not acquire interests in real estate which it already possesses or over which jurisdiction is or can be legally exercised. Irrespective of the ownership of the banks and bed of a stream below ordinary high water mark, and irrespective of western water rights under the prior appropriation doctrine, no further Federal interest is required for navigation projects in navigable streams below the ordinary high water limit. It is required, therefore, that the acquisition plan consider the extent of the navigational servitude.

(1) ER 1165-2-302 contains the practice and procedures regarding navigation.

(2) The navigational servitude affects abutting uplands, in that the special site value attributable to their location near a navigable stream is noncompensable. However, this has been partially changed by section 111 of Pub. L. 91-611. In all cases where real property is acquired by the United States for public use in connection with any improvements of rivers, harbors, canals or waterways of the United States, the compensation to be paid shall be the fair market value of such real property based upon all uses to which such real property may reasonably be put, including its highest and best use, any of which uses may be dependent upon access to or utilization of such navigable waters. In cases of partial acquisitions of real property, no depreciation in the value of any remaining real property shall be recognized, and no compensation shall be paid for any severance to the remaining real property which results from loss of or reduction of access from the remaining real property to the navigable waters because of the acquisition of real property or the purposes for which the real property is acquired.

(3) Injury to private property within or abutting non-navigable streams is compensable if inflicted in the course of an exercise of the navigation power limited to the navigable mainstream. *U.S.* v. *Kansas City Life Ins. Co.,* 339 U.S. 799 (1950), *U.S.* v *Cress,* 243 U.S. 316 (1917).

(e) *Buildings.* Buildings for human occupancy, as well as other structures which would interfere with the operation of the project, or which would be substantially damaged by inundation, are prohibited below the guide acquisition line unless otherwise specifically approved by the Chief of Engineers.

(f) *Estates.* Standard estates for acquisition of land or interests therein are contained in subpart C. Non-standard estates should be submitted to HQDA (DAEN-REA-P) WASH DC 20314 for approval.