##### § 330.13 Irrevocable trust accounts. #####

(a) *General rule.* Funds representing the “non-contingent trust interest(s)” (as defined in § 330.1(m)) of a beneficiary deposited into one or more deposit accounts established pursuant to one or more irrevocable trust agreements created by the same settlor(s) (grantor(s)) shall be added together and insured up to the SMDIA in the aggregate. Such insurance coverage shall be separate from the coverage provided for other accounts maintained by the settlor(s), trustee(s) or beneficiary(ies) of the irrevocable trust(s) at the same insured depository institution. Each “trust interest” (as defined in § 330.1(r)) in any irrevocable trust established by two or more settlors shall be deemed to be derived from each settlor pro rata to his or her contribution to the trust.

(b) *Treatment of contingent trust interests.* In the case of any trust in which certain trust interests do not qualify as non-contingent trust interests, the funds representing those interests shall be added together and insured up to the SMDIA in the aggregate. Such insurance coverage shall be in addition to the coverage provided for the funds representing non-contingent trust interests which are insured pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.

(c) *Commingled accounts of bankruptcy trustees.* Whenever a bankruptcy trustee appointed under title 11 of the United States Code commingles the funds of various bankruptcy estates in the same account at an insured depository institution, the funds of each title 11 bankruptcy estate will be added together and insured up to the SMDIA, separately from the funds of any other such estate.

[63 FR 25756, May 11, 1998, as amended at 71 FR 14631, Mar. 23, 2006; 76 FR 41395, July 14, 2011]