##### § 92.303 Procedures for health programs and activities administered by the Department. #####

(a) This section applies to discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, sex, age, or disability in health programs or activities administered by the Department, including the Federally-facilitated Marketplaces.

(b) The procedural provisions applicable to Section 504 at §§ 85.61 through 85.62 of this subchapter shall apply with respect to enforcement actions against the Department concerning discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, sex, age, or disability under Section 1557 or this part. Where this section cross-references regulatory provisions that use the term “handicap,” the term “race, color, national origin, sex, age, or disability” shall apply in its place.

(c) The Department shall permit access by OCR to its books, records, accounts, other sources of information, and facilities as may be pertinent to ascertain compliance with Section 1557 or this part. Where any information required of the Department is in the exclusive possession of any other agency, institution or individual, and the other agency, institution or individual shall fail or refuse to furnish this information, the Department shall so certify and shall set forth what efforts it has made to obtain the information. Asserted considerations of privacy or confidentiality may not operate to bar OCR from evaluating or seeking to enforce compliance with Section 1557 or this part. Information of a confidential nature obtained in connection with compliance evaluation or enforcement shall not be disclosed except where necessary under the law.

(d) The Department shall not intimidate, threaten, coerce, or discriminate against any individual for the purpose of interfering with any right or privilege secured by Section 1557 or this part, or because such individual has made a complaint, testified, assisted, or participated in any manner in an investigation, proceeding or hearing under Section 1557 or this part. The identity of complainants shall be kept confidential by OCR, except to the extent necessary to carry out the purposes of Section 1557 or this part.