##### § 617.50 Determinations of entitlement; notices to individuals. #####

(a) *Determinations of initial applications for TRA or other TAA.* The State Agency whose State law is the applicable State law under § 617.16 shall upon the filing of an initial application for TRA or other TAA promptly determine the individual's entitlement to such TRA or other TAA under this part 617, and may accept for such purposes information and findings supplied by another State agency under this part 617.

(b) *Determinations of subsequent applications for TRA or other TAA.* The State agency shall, upon the filing of an application for payment of TRA, or subsistence and transportation under §§ 617.27 and 617.28, with respect to a week, promptly determine whether the individual is eligible for a payment of TRA, or subsistence and transportation, with respect to such week, and, if eligible, the amount of TRA, or subsistence and transportation, for which the individual is eligible. In addition, the State agency promptly shall, upon the filing of a subsequent application for job search allowances (where the total of previous job search allowances paid the individual was less than $600), determine whether the individual is eligible for job search allowances, and, if eligible, the amount of job search allowances for which the individual is eligible.

(c) *Redeterminations.* The provisions of the applicable State law concerning the right to request, or authority to undertake, reconsideration of a determination pertaining to a claim for UI under the applicable State law shall apply to determinations pertaining to all forms of TAA under this part 617.

(d) *Use of State law.* In making determinations or redeterminations under this section, or in reviewing such determinations or redeterminations under § 617.51, a State agency shall apply the regulations in this part 617. As to matters committed by this part 617 to the applicable State law, a State agency, a hearing officer, or a State court shall apply the applicable State law and regulations thereunder, including procedural requirements of such State law or regulations, except so far as such State law or regulations are inconsistent with this part 617 or the purpose of this part 617: *Provided,* that, no provision of State law or regulations on good cause for waiver of any time limit, or for late filing of any claim, shall apply to any time limitation referred to or specified in this part 617, unless such State law or regulation is made applicable by a specific provision of this part 617.

(e) *Notices to individual.* The State agency shall notify the individual in writing of any determination or redetermination as to entitlement to TAA. Each determination or redetermination shall inform the individual of the reason for the determination or redetermination and of the right to reconsideration or appeal in the same manner as determinations of entitlement to UI are subject to redetermination or appeal under the applicable State law.

(f) *Promptness.* Full payment of TAA when due shall be made with the greatest promptness that is administratively feasible.

(g) *Procedure.* Except where otherwise required by the Act or this part 617, the procedures for making and furnishing determinations and written notices of determinations to individuals, shall be consistent with the Secretary's “Standard for Claim Determinations - Separation Information,” *Employment Security Manual,* part V, sections 6010-6015 (appendix B of this part).

[51 FR 45848, Dec. 22, 1986, as amended at 59 FR 939, 943, Jan. 6, 1994]