##### ยง 643.14 Inspection to assure compliance with terms of outgrants. #####

Commanders will provide general surveillance over areas made available for non-Army use and will advise the DE if and when there are any irregularities. Real estate which is being used for non-military purposes will be inspected at least once each year by the COE, or by his representative, to determine whether grantees or occupants are complyng with the terms of the instruments authorizing use and occupancy, except with respect to easements and licenses for rights-of-way for roads, streets, powerlines, pipelines, underground communication lines and similar facilities. The COE will make compliance inspections for such easements and licenses at least once during each 5-year period. However, the DE will check with installation commanders annually to assure that there are no situations which might need correction prior to the inspection. The installation commander will make interim inspections of all real estate being used for non-military purposes as are necessary for timely observation of the extent of compliance with grant provisions designed to protect and preserve the real estate for military requirements, and will furnish the appropriate DE a copy of a written report of the inspection reflecting findings and recommendations. In order that the grantee's operations not be unreasonably disrupted, the annual compliance inspection made by the DE will be coordinated with the installation commander so that, if feasible, only one inspection will be made. Where necessary, corrective action in accordance with applicable regulations will be taken for the enforcement of the terms of the grant by the responsible officer who granted the use. Overseas commanders are responsible for inspection of real estate under their jurisdiction and necessary corrective action.