cfr/title-12-Banks-Banking/chapter-VII-National-Credit-Union-Administration/subchapter-A-Regulations-Affecting-Credit-Unions/part-747-Administrative-Actions-Adjudicative-Hearings-Rules-Practice-Procedure-Investigations/subpart-A-Uniform-Rules-Practice-Procedure/section-747.35.md, before:

##### § 747.35 Conduct of hearings. #####

(a) *General rules.* (1) Hearings shall be conducted so as to provide a fair and expeditious presentation of the relevant disputed issues. Each party has the right to present its case or defense by oral and documentary evidence and to conduct such cross examination as may be required for full disclosure of the facts.

(2) *Order of hearing.* Enforcement Counsel shall present its case-in-chief first, unless otherwise ordered by the administrative law judge, or unless otherwise expressly specified by law or regulation. Enforcement Counsel shall be the first party to present an opening statement and a closing statement, and may make a rebuttal statement after the respondent's closing statement. If there are multiple respondents, respondents may agree among themselves as to their order of presentation of their cases, but if they do not agree the administrative law judge shall fix the order.

(3) *Examination of witnesses.* Only one counsel for each party may conduct an examination of a witness, except that in the case of extensive direct examination, the administrative law judge may permit more than one counsel for the party presenting the witness to conduct the examination. A party may have one counsel conduct the direct examination and another counsel conduct re-direct examination of a witness, or may have one counsel conduct the cross examination of a witness and another counsel conduct the re-cross examination of a witness.

(4) *Stipulations.* Unless the administrative law judge directs otherwise, all stipulations of fact and law previously agreed upon by the parties, and all documents, the admissibility of which have been previously stipulated, will be admitted into evidence upon commencement of the hearing.

(b) *Transcript.* The hearing must be recorded and transcribed. The reporter will make the transcript available to any party upon payment by that party to the reporter of the cost of the transcript. The administrative law judge may order the record corrected, either upon motion to correct, upon stipulation of the parties, or following notice to the parties upon the administrative law judge's own motion.

[56 FR 37767, Aug. 8, 1991, as amended at 61 FR 28027, June 4, 1996]

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2024-04-01 issue
Title: 5: Administrative Personnel - Sections changed: 10
Title: 14: Aeronautics and Space - Sections changed: 14
Title: 8: Aliens and Nationality - Sections changed: 28
Title: 12: Banks and Banking - Sections changed: 415
Title: 15: Commerce and Foreign Trade - Sections changed: 1
Title: 16: Commercial Practices - Sections changed: 3
Title: 29: Labor - Sections changed: 3
Title: 33: Navigation and Navigable Waters - Sections changed: 1
Title: 39: Postal Service - Sections changed: 2
Title: 40: Protection of Environment - Sections changed: 8
Title: 46: Shipping - Sections changed: 1
Title: 50: Wildlife and Fisheries - Sections changed: 16

cfr/title-12-Banks-Banking/chapter-VII-National-Credit-Union-Administration/subchapter-A-Regulations-Affecting-Credit-Unions/part-747-Administrative-Actions-Adjudicative-Hearings-Rules-Practice-Procedure-Investigations/subpart-A-Uniform-Rules-Practice-Procedure/section-747.35.md, after:

##### § 747.35 Conduct of hearings. #####

(a) *General rules.* (1) *Conduct of hearings.* Hearings must be conducted so as to provide a fair and expeditious presentation of the relevant disputed issues. Each party has the right to present its case or defense by oral and documentary evidence and to conduct such cross examination as may be required for full disclosure of the facts.

(2) *Order of hearing.* Enforcement Counsel will present its case-in-chief first, unless otherwise ordered by the ALJ, or unless otherwise expressly specified by law or regulation. Enforcement Counsel will be the first party to present an opening statement and a closing statement and may make a rebuttal statement after the respondent's closing statement. If there are multiple respondents, respondents may agree among themselves as to their order of presentation of their cases, but if they do not agree, the ALJ will fix the order.

(3) *Examination of witnesses.* Only one counsel for each party may conduct an examination of a witness, except that in the case of extensive direct examination, the ALJ may permit more than one counsel for the party presenting the witness to conduct the examination. A party may have one counsel conduct the direct examination and another counsel conduct re-direct examination of a witness, or may have one counsel conduct the cross examination of a witness and another counsel conduct the re-cross examination of a witness.

(4) *Stipulations.* Unless the ALJ directs otherwise, all stipulations of fact and law previously agreed upon by the parties, and all documents, the admissibility of which have been previously stipulated, will be admitted into evidence upon commencement of the hearing.

(b) *Transcript.* The hearing must be recorded and transcribed. The reporter will make the transcript available to any party upon payment by that party to the reporter of the cost of the transcript. The ALJ may order the record corrected, either upon motion to correct, upon stipulation of the parties, or following notice to the parties upon the ALJ's own motion.

(c) *Electronic presentation.* Based on the circumstances of each hearing, the ALJ may direct the use of, or any party may use, an electronic presentation during the hearing. If the ALJ requires an electronic presentation during the hearing, each party will be responsible for their own presentation and related costs, unless the parties agree to another manner in which to allocate presentation responsibilities and costs.
