##### ยง 747.40 Review by the NCUA Board. #####

(a) *Notice of submission to NCUA Board.* When the NCUA Board determines that the record in the proceeding is complete, the NCUA Board shall serve notice upon the parties that the proceeding has been submitted to the NCUA Board for final decision.

(b) *Oral argument before NCUA Board.* Upon the initiative of the NCUA Board or on the written request of any party filed with the NCUA Board within the time for filing exceptions, the NCUA Board may order and hear oral argument on the recommended findings, conclusions, decision, and order of the administrative law judge. A written request by a party must show good cause for oral argument and state reasons why arguments cannot be presented adequately in writing. A denial of a request for oral argument may be set forth in the NCUA Board's final decision. Oral argument before the NCUA Board must be on the record.

(c) *Final Decision of NCUA Board.* (1) Decisional employees may advise and assist the NCUA Board in the consideration and disposition of the case. The final decision of the NCUA Board will be based upon review of the entire record of the proceeding, except that the NCUA Board may limit the issues to be reviewed to those findings and conclusions to which opposing arguments or exceptions have been filed by the parties.

(2) The NCUA Board shall render a final decision within 90 days after notification of the parties that the case has been submitted for final decision, or 90 days after oral argument, whichever is later, unless the NCUA Board orders that the action or any aspect thereof be remanded to the administrative law judge for further proceedings. Copies of the final decision and order of the NCUA Board shall be served upon each party to the proceeding, upon other persons required by statute, and, if directed by the NCUA Board or required by statute, upon any appropriate state or Federal supervisory authority.

[56 FR 37767, Aug. 8, 1991, as amended at 75 FR 34622, June 18, 2010]