##### ยง 279.8 Synthesis and analysis. #####

(a) *Option, synthesis and analysis.* The project resources and market area information should be aggregated and analyzed to determine what trade-offs can be made among the possible options to establish objectives that can meet the highest and best use of the natural and man-made resources, efficiently meet the needs of the public to be served, and be of lasting value to the region and the nation as a whole. The options determined in the first step should be synthesized to combine the separate elements. Compatible options in the two parts would result in rational resource use objectives. Conflicting options require trade-off analysis to determine to what extent compromise can be made, or if any compromise is possible to achieve acceptable objectives. In both cases the impacts, beneficial and adverse, of implementing the compatible or compromise objective(s) should be stated. For example, the preservation of wildlife habitat could limit the development of high intensity recreational facilities in a physically suitable area, resulting in a lower attainment of tangible recreation benefits. However, preservation of the existing habitat would produce intangible benefits to society by enhancing a species otherwise likely to be lost to the area.

(b) *Diversity of opportunities.* In regions where there are a number of Corps projects, this analysis must consider the larger regional context of interrelationships which will result in a diversity of opportunities available and emphasize the particular qualities of each project. For example, one project may emphasize swimming, another project weekend camping and power boating, while still another project may provide fishing and passive recreation use such as hiking trails, nature, and ecological study areas.

(c) *Constraints.* In addition to constraints imposed by the authorizing legislation, other project purposes and resource capabilities, the resource use objectives must be consistent and compatible with State and Regional planning activities and programs. As an example, Corps management actions to achieve resource use objectives must be compatible with the State approved Best Management Practices (BMP) for waste treatment (and non-point sources of pollution) as prescribed by section 208, Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972 (Pub. L. 92-500), as amended.