##### ยง 279.7 Information collection and preliminary analysis. #####

(a) *Data search.* This effort consists of collecting existing data and accomplishing the minimum additional studies necessary to obtain the information required to generate and analyze the likely options. State and local agency input should be sought during this phase. The initial work will be to determine separately the options for resource use and public needs. A preliminary analysis comparing the two parts and their relationship to authorized project purposes and administrative constraints should be conducted prior to further public and agency input.

(b) *Project resources.* The natural and man-made resources of the project area are to be identified and the inter-relationships analyzed to generate the options that are most viable to the overall region. The environmental information and analysis, among other things, should define and describe the physical limitations of the project, aquatic and terrestrial vegetation, game and non-game wildlife species and distribution, fisheries, terrain, soils, minerals, climate, capacity and sensitivity of these resources to public use, archaeological and historical resources, management techniques, and ecosystem interactions.

(c) *Social needs and benefits.* The problems, opportunities, and desires of the people of the region to be served by the project must be identified in order to determine options that are in the best overall public interest. The basic approach for determining public needs and benefits is through a market analysis and a public involvement program. In considering options, the analysis as a minimum should include the indentification of the various publics served, views of other agencies and organizations, existing and planned recreational facilities in the market area of the consumer, the population base and distribution, institutional analysis of potential cost-sharing partners, constraints, the transportation network, the needs identified by local, State and Federal agencies, and the State Comprehensive Outdoor Recreation Plan (SCORP).