cfr/title-50-Wildlife-Fisheries/chapter-VI-Fishery-Conservation-Management-National-Oceanic-Atmospheric-Administration-Department-Commerce/part-648-Fisheries-Northeastern-United-States/subpart-H-Management-Measures-Scup-Fishery/section-648.126.md, before:

##### § 648.126 Scup minimum fish sizes. #####

Link to an amendment published at 84 FR 65703, Nov. 29, 2019.

(a) *Moratorium (commercially) permitted vessels.* The minimum size for scup is 9 inches (22.9 cm) TL for all vessels issued a moratorium permit under § 648.4(a)(6). If such a vessel is also issued a charter and party boat permit and is carrying passengers for hire, or carrying more than three crew members if a charter boat, or more than five crew members if a party boat, then the minimum size specified in paragraph (b) of this section applies.

(b) *Party/Charter permitted vessels and recreational fishery participants.* The minimum size for scup is 9 inches (22.9 cm) TL for all vessels that do not have a moratorium permit, or for party and charter vessels that are issued a moratorium permit but are fishing with passengers for hire, or carrying more than three crew members if a charter boat, or more than five crew members if a party boat.

(c) The minimum size applies to whole fish or any part of a fish found in possession, e.g., fillets. These minimum sizes may be adjusted pursuant to the procedures in § 648.122.

[76 FR 60635, Sept. 29, 2011, as amended at 78 FR 37480, June 21, 2013; 79 FR 38264, July 7, 2014]

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2019-12-30 issue
Title: 12: Banks and Banking - Sections changed: 4
Title: 13: Business Credit and Assistance - Sections changed: 18
Title: 10: Energy - Sections changed: 64
Title: 21: Food and Drugs - Sections changed: 186
Title: 32: National Defense - Sections changed: 6
Title: 33: Navigation and Navigable Waters - Sections changed: 2
Title: 40: Protection of Environment - Sections changed: 3
Title: 50: Wildlife and Fisheries - Sections changed: 17

cfr/title-50-Wildlife-Fisheries/chapter-VI-Fishery-Conservation-Management-National-Oceanic-Atmospheric-Administration-Department-Commerce/part-648-Fisheries-Northeastern-United-States/subpart-H-Management-Measures-Scup-Fishery/section-648.126.md, after:

##### § 648.126 Scup minimum fish sizes. #####

(a) *Moratorium (commercially) permitted vessels.* The minimum size for scup is 9 inches (22.9 cm) TL for all vessels issued a moratorium permit under § 648.4(a)(6). If such a vessel is also issued a charter and party boat permit and is carrying passengers for hire, or carrying more than three crew members if a charter boat, or more than five crew members if a party boat, then the minimum size specified in paragraph (b) of this section applies.

(b) *Party/Charter permitted vessels and recreational fishery participants.* The minimum size for scup is 9 inches (22.9 cm) total length for all vessels that do not have a scup moratorium permit, or for party and charter vessels that are issued a scup moratorium permit but are fishing with passengers for hire, or carrying more than three crew members if a charter boat, or more than five crew members if a party boat. However, possession of smaller scup harvested from state waters is allowed for state-only permitted vessels when transiting Federal waters within the Block Island Sound Transit Area provided they follow the provisions at § 648.131 and abide by state regulations.

(c) The minimum size applies to whole fish or any part of a fish found in possession, e.g., fillets. These minimum sizes may be adjusted pursuant to the procedures in § 648.122.

[76 FR 60635, Sept. 29, 2011, as amended at 78 FR 37480, June 21, 2013; 79 FR 38264, July 7, 2014; 84 FR 65703, Nov. 29, 2019]
