##### § 35.730 Child with an environmental intervention blood lead level. #####

Link to an amendment published at 82 FR 4167, Jan. 13, 2017.

(a) *Risk assessment.* Within 15 days after being notified by a public health department or other medical health care provider that a child of less than 6 years of age living in a dwelling unit to which this subpart applies has been identified as having an environmental intervention blood lead level, the owner shall complete a risk assessment of the dwelling unit in which the child lived at the time the blood was last sampled and of common areas servicing the dwelling unit. The risk assessment shall be conducted in accordance with 35.1320(b) and is considered complete when the owner receives the risk assessment report. The requirements of this paragraph apply regardless of whether the child is or is not still living in the unit when the owner receives the notification of the environmental intervention blood lead level. The requirements of this paragraph (a) shall not apply if the owner conducted a risk assessment of the unit and common areas servicing the unit between the date the child's blood was last sampled and the date when the owner received the notification of the environmental intervention blood lead level. If a public health department has already conducted an evaluation of the dwelling unit, the requirements of this paragraph shall not apply.

(b) *Verification.* After receiving information from a person who is not a medical health care provider that a child of less than 6 years of age living in a dwelling unit covered by this subpart may have an environmental intervention blood lead level, the owner shall immediately verify the information with the public health department or other medical health care provider. If that department or provider verifies that the child has an environmental intervention blood lead level, such verification shall constitute notification, and the owner shall take the action required in paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section.

(c) *Hazard reduction.* Within 30 days after receiving the report of the risk assessment conducted pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section or the evaluation from the public health department, the owner shall complete the reduction of identified lead-based paint hazards in accordance with § 35.1325 or § 35.1330. Hazard reduction is considered complete when clearance is achieved in accordance with § 35.1340 and the clearance report states that all lead-based paint hazards identified in the risk assessment have been treated with interim controls or abatement or the public health department certifies that the lead-based paint hazard reduction is complete. The requirements of this paragraph do not apply if the owner, between the date the child's blood was last sampled and the date the owner received the notification of the environmental intervention blood lead level, already conducted a risk assessment of the unit and common areas servicing the unit and completed reduction of identified lead-based paint hazards.

(d) *Notice.* If evaluation or hazard reduction is undertaken, each owner shall provide a notice to occupants in accordance with § 35.125.

(e) *Reporting requirement.* The owner shall report the name and address of a child identified as having an environmental intervention blood lead level to the public health department within 5 working days of being so notified by any other medical health care professional.