##### ยง 700.871 Responsibility for safety of ships and craft at a naval station or shipyard. #####

(a) The commanding officer of a naval station or shipyard shall be responsible for the care and safety of all ships and craft at such station or shipyard not under a commanding officer or assigned to another authority, and for any damage that may be done by or to them. In addition, the commanding officer of a naval station or shipyard shall be responsible for the safe execution of work performed by that activity upon any ship located at the activity.

(b) It shall be the responsibility of the commanding officer of a ship in commission which is undergoing overhaul, or which is otherwise immobilized at a naval station or shipyard, to request such services as are necessary to ensure the safety of the ship. The commanding officer of the naval station or shipyard shall be responsible for providing requested services in a timely and adequate manner.

(c) When a ship or craft not under her own power is being moved by direction of the commanding officer of a naval station or shipyard, that officer shall be responsible for any damage that may result therefrom. The pilot or other person designated for the purpose shall be in direct charge of such movement, and all persons on board shall cooperate with and assist the pilot as necessary. Responsibility for such actions in a private shipyard will be assigned by contract to the contractor.

(d) When a ship operating under her own power is being drydocked, the commanding officer shall be fully responsible for the safety of his ship until the extremity of the ship first to enter the drydock reaches the dock sill and the ship is pointed fair for entering the drydock. The docking officer shall then take charge and complete the docking, remaining in charge until the ship has been properly landed, bilge blocks hauled, and the dock pumped down. In undocking, the docking officer shall assume charge when flooding the dock preparatory to undocking is started, and shall remain in charge until the extremity of the ship last to leave the dock clears the sill, and the ship is pointed fair for leaving the drydock, when the ship's commanding officer shall assume responsibility for the safety and control of the ship.

(e) When a naval ship is to be drydocked in a private shipyard under a contract being administered by a supervisor of shipbuilding, the responsibilities of the commanding officer are the same as in the case of drydocking in a naval shipyard. The responsibilities for the safety of the actual drydocking, normally assigned to the commanding officer of a naval shipyard through the docking officer, will be assigned by contract to the contractor. The supervisor of shipbuilding is responsible, however, for ensuring that the contractor facilities, methods, operations, and qualifications meet the standards of efficiency and safety prescribed by Navy directives.

(f) If the ship is elsewhere than at a naval station or shipyard, the relationship between the commanding officer and the supervisor of shipbuilding, or other appropriate official, shall be the same as that between the commanding officer and the commanding officer of a naval station or naval shipyard as specified in this article.