##### § 20.608 Rule 608. Withdrawal of services by a representative. #####

(a) *Withdrawal of services prior to certification of an appeal.* A representative may withdraw services as representative in an appeal at any time prior to certification of the appeal to the Board of Veterans' Appeals by the agency of original jurisdiction by complying with the requirements of § 14.631 of this chapter.

(b) *Withdrawal of services after certification of an appeal* - (1) *Applicability.* The restrictions on a representative's right to withdraw contained in this paragraph apply only to those cases in which the representative has previously agreed to act as representative in an appeal. In addition to express agreement, orally or in writing, such agreement shall be presumed if the representative makes an appearance in the case by acting on an appellant's behalf before the Board in any way after the appellant has designated the representative as such as provided in §§ 20.602 through 20.605 of this part. The preceding sentence notwithstanding, an appearance in an appeal solely to notify the Board that a designation of representation has not been accepted will not be presumed to constitute such consent.

(2) *Procedures.* After the agency of original jurisdiction has certified an appeal to the Board of Veterans' Appeals, a representative may not withdraw services as representative in the appeal unless good cause is shown on motion. Good cause for such purposes is the extended illness or incapacitation of an agent admitted to practice before the Department of Veterans Affairs, an attorney-at-law, or other individual representative; failure of the appellant to cooperate with proper preparation and presentation of the appeal; or other factors which make the continuation of representation impossible, impractical, or unethical. Such motions must be in writing and must include the name of the veteran, the name of the claimant or appellant if other than the veteran (e.g., a veteran's survivor, a guardian, or a fiduciary appointed to receive VA benefits on an individual's behalf), the applicable Department of Veterans Affairs file number, and the reason why withdrawal should be permitted, and a signed statement certifying that a copy of the motion was sent by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to the appellant, setting forth the address to which the copy was mailed. Such motions should not contain information which would violate privileged communications or which would otherwise be unethical to reveal. Such motions must be filed at the following address: Office of the Principal Deputy Vice Chairman (01C), Board of Veterans' Appeals, P.O. Box 27063, Washington, DC 20038. The appellant may file a response to the motion with the Board at the same address not later than 30 days following receipt of the copy of the motion and must include a signed statement certifying that a copy of the response was sent by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to the representative, setting forth the address to which the copy was mailed.

(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2900-0085)(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 5901-5904, 7105(a))[57 FR 4109, Feb. 3, 1992, as amended at 61 FR 20450, May 7, 1996; 69 FR 21069, Apr. 20, 2004; 73 FR 29879, May 22, 2008; 81 FR 32649, May 24, 2016]