##### § 1081.209 Deposition of witness unavailable for hearing. #####

(a) *General rules.* (1) If a witness will not be available for the hearing, a party desiring to preserve that witness's testimony for the record may request in accordance with the procedures set forth in this section that the hearing officer issue a subpoena, including a subpoena *duces tecum,* requiring the attendance of the witness at a deposition. The hearing officer may issue a deposition subpoena under this section upon a showing that:

(i) The witness will be unable to attend or may be prevented from attending the hearing because of age, sickness, or infirmity, or will otherwise be unavailable;

(ii) The witness's unavailability was not procured or caused by the subpoenaing party;

(iii) The testimony is reasonably expected to be material; and

(iv) Taking the deposition will not result in any undue burden to any other party and will not cause undue delay of the proceeding.

(2) In addition to making a showing as required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the request for a deposition subpoena must contain a proposed deposition subpoena and a brief statement showing the general relevance and reasonableness of the scope of testimony and documents sought, and the time and place for taking the deposition. Any request to record the deposition by audio-visual means must be made in the request for a deposition subpoena.

(3) Any requested deposition subpoena that sets forth a valid basis for its issuance must be promptly issued, unless the hearing officer on his or her own motion requires a written response or requires attendance at a conference concerning whether the requested subpoena should be issued. However, where it appears to the hearing officer that the deposition subpoena sought may be unreasonable, oppressive, excessive in scope, or unduly burdensome, he or she may, in his or her discretion, as a condition precedent to the issuance of the deposition subpoena, require the person seeking the deposition subpoena to show further the general relevance and reasonable scope of the testimony or other evidence sought. If after consideration of all the circumstances, the hearing officer determines that the deposition subpoena or any of its terms is unreasonable, oppressive, excessive in scope, or unduly burdensome, he or she may refuse to issue the deposition subpoena, or issue it only upon such conditions as fairness requires. In making the foregoing determination, the hearing officer may inquire of the other participants whether they will stipulate to the facts sought to be proved.

(4) Unless the hearing officer orders otherwise, no deposition under this section shall be taken on fewer than 14 days' notice to the witness and all parties.

(b) *Procedure.* Unless made on the record at a hearing, requests for issuance of a deposition subpoena shall be made in writing, and filed and served on each party pursuant to subpart A of this part.

(c) *Signing may be delegated.* A hearing officer may authorize issuance of a deposition subpoena, and may delegate the manual signing of the deposition subpoena to any other person.

(d) *Service.* Upon issuance by the hearing officer, the party making the request shall serve the subpoena on the person named in the subpoena and on each party in accordance with § 1081.113(c). Deposition subpoenas may be served in any State, territory, possession of the United States, or the District of Columbia, on any person or company doing business in any State, territory, possession of the United States, or the District of Columbia, or as otherwise permitted by law.

(e) *Tender of fees required.* When a subpoena compelling the attendance of a person at a deposition is issued at the request of anyone other than an officer or agency of the United States, service is valid only if the subpoena is accompanied by a tender to the subpoenaed person of the fees for one day's attendance and mileage specified by § 1081.116.

(f) *Motion to quash or modify* - (1) *Procedure.* Any person to whom a deposition subpoena is directed, or who is an owner, creator, or the subject of the documents that are to be produced pursuant to a deposition subpoena, or any party may, prior to the time specified therein for compliance, but in no event more than ten days after the date of service of such subpoena, move that the deposition subpoena be quashed or modified. Such motion must include a statement of the basis for the motion to quash or modify the deposition subpoena, and shall be filed and served on all parties pursuant to subpart A of this part. Notwithstanding § 1081.205, the party on whose behalf the deposition subpoena was issued or enforcement counsel may, within five days of service of the motion, file a response to the motion. Reply briefs are not permitted unless requested by the hearing officer.

(2) *Standards governing motion to quash or modify.* If compliance with the deposition subpoena would be unreasonable, oppressive or unduly burdensome, or the deposition subpoena does not meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the hearing officer shall quash or modify the deposition subpoena, or may order return of the deposition subpoena only upon specified conditions. These conditions may include but are not limited to a requirement that the party on whose behalf the deposition subpoena was issued shall make reasonable compensation to the person to whom the deposition subpoena was addressed for the cost of copying or transporting evidence to the place for return of the deposition subpoena.

(g) *Procedure upon deposition.* (1) Depositions shall be taken before any person before whom a deposition may be taken pursuant to the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure (the “deposition officer”).

(2) The witness being deposed may have an attorney present during the deposition.

(3) Each witness testifying pursuant to a deposition subpoena must be duly sworn, and each party shall have the right to examine the witness. Objections to questions or documents must be in short form, stating the grounds for the objection. Objections to questions of evidence shall be noted by the deposition officer upon the deposition, but a deposition officer other than the hearing officer shall not have the power to decide on the competency, materiality, or relevance of evidence. Failure to object to questions or documents is not deemed a waiver except where the ground for the objection might have been avoided if the objection had been timely presented. All questions, answers, and objections must be recorded.

(4) The deposition must be subscribed by the witness, unless the parties and the witness, by stipulation, have waived the signing, or the witness is ill, cannot be found, or has refused to sign. If the deposition is not subscribed by the witness, the court reporter taking the deposition shall certify that the transcript is a true and complete transcript of the deposition.

(5) The original deposition transcript and exhibits shall be filed with the Office of Administrative Adjudication. The cost of the transcript shall be paid by the party requesting the deposition. A copy of the deposition shall be available to the deponent and each party for purchase at prescribed rates.

(h) *Enforcing subpoenas.* Any party may move before the hearing officer for an order compelling the witness to answer any questions the witness has refused to answer or submit any evidence the witness has refused to submit during the deposition. If a subpoenaed person fails to comply with any order of the hearing officer which directs compliance with all or any portion of a deposition subpoena under this section, the Bureau's General Counsel may, on its own motion or at the request of the party on whose behalf the subpoena was issued, apply to an appropriate United States district court, in the name of the Bureau but on relation of such party, for an order requiring compliance with so much of the subpoena as the hearing officer has not quashed or modified, unless, in the judgment of the General Counsel, the enforcement of such subpoena would be inconsistent with law and the policies of title X of the Dodd-Frank Act. Failure to request that the Bureau seek enforcement of a subpoena constitutes a waiver of any claim of prejudice predicated upon the unavailability of the testimony or evidence sought.