##### ยง 72.56 Grant program compliance requirements. #####

(a) Once a proposal has received a grant offer, applicants will be responsible for compliance with all applicable Federal laws and regulations, including, but not limited to:

Architectural Barriers Act of 1968 (P.L. 90-480)Clean Air Act and Federal Water Pollution Control ActCopeland Anti-kickback ActEndangered Species Act of 1973 (Pub. L. 93-205)Executive Order 11246, Equal Employment OpportunityExecutive Order 11593, Protection and Enhancement of the Cultural EnvironmentExecutive Order 11625, Arrangements for Developing and Coordinating a National Program for Minority Business EnterpriseExecutive Order 11988, Floodplains ManagementExecutive Order 11990, Protection of WetlandsExecutive Order 12088, Federal compliance with Pollution Control StandardsExecutive Order 12185, Conservation of Petroleum and Natural GasFlood Disaster Protection Act of 1973 (Pub. L. 93-234)Historical and Archeological Data Preservation Act of 1974 (Pub. L. 93-291) 36 CFR 66National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (Pub. L. 91-190)National Historic Preservation Act (Pub. L. 89-665)Nondiscrimination section 109 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (42 USC 5301) as amended.Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Action Act of 1973Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, Executive Order 11764Title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968 (42 USC 3601) as amended, Executive Order 11063 (27 FR 11527)Uniform Relocation Assistance & Land Acquisition Policies Act of 1970 (Pub. L. 91-646)

(b) Applicants using General Revenue Sharing or Community Development Block Grant monies as a matching share must check with the responsible Federal agencies, i.e. Treasury or HUD to determine if the Davis-Bacon Act is applicable. (HUD regulations 24 CFR part 570 [CDBG]. Treasury regulations 31 CFR part 51, State and Local Fiscal Assistance Amendments of 1976 [P.L. 94-488], General Revenue Sharing program.) Questions concerning other CDBG requirements should be addressed to the HUD Area Office serving the UPARR applicant jurisdiction.