##### ยง 318.13-26 Breadfruit, jackfruit, fresh pods of cowpea, dragon fruit, mangosteen, melon, and moringa pods from Hawaii. #####

(a) *Breadfruit and jackfruit.* (1) To be eligible for interstate movement, breadfruit and jackfruit from Hawaii must be treated with irradiation in accordance with part 305 of this chapter.

(2) To be certified for interstate movement, breadfruit and jackfruit from Hawaii must be inspected in Hawaii and found free of spiraling whitefly (*Aleurodicus dispersus*), inornate scale (*Aonidiella inornata*), red wax scale (*Ceroplastes rubens*), green scale (*Coccus viridis*), gray pineapple mealybug (*Dysmicoccus neobrevipes*), pink hibiscus mealybug (*Maconellicoccus hirsutus*), spherical mealybug (*Nipaecoccus viridis*), citrus mealybug (*Pseudococcus cryptus*), melon thrips (*Thrips palmi*), and signs of thrip damage before undergoing irradiation treatment in Hawaii at a dose approved to neutralize fruit flies. Fruit treated for fruit flies also must either receive a post-harvest dip in accordance with part 305 of this chapter to treat external feeders or originate from an orchard or growing area that was previously treated with a broad-spectrum insecticide during the growing season and a pre-harvest inspection of the orchard or growing area found the fruit free of any surface pests as prescribed in a compliance agreement. Post-treatment inspection in Hawaii is not required if the fruit undergoes irradiation treatment at a dose approved to neutralize all plant pests of the class *Insecta*, except pupae and adults of the order Lepidoptera. Regardless of irradiation dose, the fruit must be free of stems and leaves and must originate from an orchard that was previously treated with a fungicide appropriate for the fungus *Phytophthora tropicalis* during the growing season and the fruit must be inspected prior to harvest and found free of the fungus or, after irradiation treatment, must receive a post-harvest fungicidal dip appropriate for *Phytophthora tropicalis.*

(3) To be eligible for a limited permit, breadfruit and jackfruit from Hawaii must be free of stems and leaves and must originate from an orchard that was previously treated with a fungicide appropriate for the fungus *Phytophthora tropicalis* during the growing season and the fruit must be inspected prior to harvest and found free of the fungus or, after irradiation treatment, must receive a post-harvest fungicidal dip appropriate for *Phytophthora tropicalis.*

(b) *Fresh pods of cowpea.* (1) To be eligible for interstate movement, fresh pods of cowpea and its relatives from Hawaii must be treated with irradiation in accordance with part 305 of this chapter.

(2) To be certified for interstate movement, fresh pods of cowpea and its relatives from Hawaii must be inspected in Hawaii and found free of the cassava red mite (*Oligonychus biharensis*) and adults and pupae of the order Lepidoptera before undergoing irradiation treatment. The pods must be free of stems and leaves.

(3) To be eligible for a limited permit, fresh pods of cowpea and its relatives from Hawaii must be free of stems and leaves and must be inspected in Hawaii and found free of the cassava red mite (*Oligonychus biharensis*) and adults and pupae of the order Lepidoptera.

(c) *Dragon fruit.* To be certified for interstate movement, dragon fruit from Hawaii presented for inspection must have the sepals removed and must be inspected in Hawaii and found free of gray pineapple mealybug (*Dysmicoccus neobrevipes*), pink hibiscus mealybug (*Maconellicoccus hirsutus*), and citrus mealybug (*Pseudococcus cryptus*) before undergoing irradiation treatment in Hawaii at a dose approved to neutralize fruit flies. Fruit treated for fruit flies also must either receive a post-harvest dip in accordance with part 305 of this chapter to treat external feeders or originate from an orchard or growing area that was previously treated with a broad-spectrum insecticide during the growing season and a pre-harvest inspection of the orchard or growing area found the fruit free of any surface pests as prescribed in a compliance agreement. Post-treatment inspection in Hawaii is not required if the fruit undergoes irradiation treatment at a dose approved to neutralize all plant pests of the class *Insecta*, except pupae and adults of the order Lepidoptera. Regardless of irradiation dose, the fruit must be free of stems and leaves.

(d) *Mangosteen.* To be certified for interstate movement, mangosteen from Hawaii must have the sepals removed and must be inspected in Hawaii and found free of gray pineapple mealybug (*Dysmicoccus neobrevipes*), pink hibiscus mealybug (*Maconellicoccus hirsutus*), citrus mealybug (*Pseudococcus cryptus*), and *Thrips florum* before undergoing irradiation treatment in Hawaii at a dose approved to neutralize fruit flies. Fruit treated for fruit flies also must either receive a post-harvest dip in accordance with part 305 of this chapter to treat external feeders or originate from an orchard or growing area that was previously treated with a broad-spectrum insecticide during the growing season and a pre-harvest inspection of the orchard or growing area found the fruit free of any surface pests as prescribed in a compliance agreement. Post-treatment inspection in Hawaii is not required if the fruit undergoes irradiation treatment at a dose approved to neutralize all plant pests of the class *Insecta*, except pupae and adults of the order Lepidoptera. Regardless of irradiation dose, the fruit must be free of stems and leaves.

(e) *Melon.* To be certified for interstate movement, melon from Hawaii must be inspected in Hawaii and found free of spiraling whitefly (*Aleurodicus dispersus*) before undergoing irradiation treatment in Hawaii at a dose approved to neutralize fruit flies. Fruit treated for fruit flies also must either receive a post-harvest dip in accordance with part 305 of this chapter to treat external feeders or originate from an orchard or growing area that was previously treated with a broad-spectrum insecticide during the growing season and a pre-harvest inspection of the orchard or growing area found the fruit free of any surface pests as prescribed in a compliance agreement. Post-treatment inspection in Hawaii is not required if the fruit undergoes irradiation treatment at a dose approved to neutralize all plant pests of the class *Insecta*, except pupae and adults of the order Lepidoptera. Regardless of irradiation dose, melons must be washed to remove dirt and must be free of stems and leaves.

(f) *Moringa pods.* To be certified for interstate movement, moringa pods from Hawaii must be inspected in Hawaii and found free of spiraling whitefly (*Aleurodicus dispersus*), inornate scale (*Aonidiella inornata*), green scale (*Coccus viridis*), and citrus mealybug (*Pseudococcus cryptus*) before undergoing irradiation treatment in Hawaii at a dose approved to neutralize fruit flies. Fruit treated for fruit flies also must either receive a post-harvest dip in accordance with part 305 of this chapter to treat external feeders or originate from an orchard or growing area that was previously treated with a broad-spectrum insecticide during the growing season and a pre-harvest inspection of the orchard or growing area found the fruit free of any surface pests as prescribed in a compliance agreement. Post-treatment inspection in Hawaii is not required if the fruit undergoes irradiation treatment at a dose approved to neutralize all plant pests of the class *Insecta*, except pupae and adults of the order Lepidoptera.

(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0331)[75 FR 4250, Jan. 26, 2010, as amended at 78 FR 56132, Sept. 12, 2013]