cfr/title-24-Housing-Urban-Development/subtitle-B-Regulations-Relating-Housing-Urban-Development/chapter-IX-Office-Assistant-Secretary-Public-Indian-Housing-Department-Housing-Urban-Development/part-982-Section-8-TenantBased-Assistance-Housing-Choice-Voucher-Program/subpart-M-Special-Housing-Types/subjectgroup-ECFRf437f8edadff613-Homeownership-Option/section-982.641.md, before:

##### § 982.641 Homeownership option: Applicability of other requirements. #####

Link to an amendment published at 89 FR 38304, May 7, 2024.

(a) *General.* The following types of provisions (located in other subparts of this part) do not apply to assistance under the homeownership option:

(1) Any provisions concerning the Section 8 owner or the HAP contract between the PHA and owner;

(2) Any provisions concerning the assisted tenancy or the lease between the family and the owner;

(3) Any provisions concerning PHA approval of the assisted tenancy;

(4) Any provisions concerning rent to owner or reasonable rent; and

(5) Any provisions concerning the issuance or term of voucher.

(b) *Subpart G requirements.* The following provisions of subpart G of this part do not apply to assistance under the homeownership option:

(1) Section 982.302 (Issuance of voucher; Requesting PHA approval of assisted tenancy);

(2) Section 982.303 (Term of voucher);

(3) Section 982.305 (PHA approval of assisted tenancy);

(4) Section 982.306 (PHA disapproval of owner) (except that a PHA may disapprove a seller for any reason described in paragraph (c), see § 982.631(d)).

(5) Section 982.307 (Tenant screening);

(6) Section 982.308 (Lease and tenancy);

(7) Section 982.309 (Term of assisted tenancy);

(8) Section 982.310 (Owner termination of tenancy);

(9) Section 982.311 (When assistance is paid) (except that § 982.311(c)(3) is applicable to assistance under the homeownership option);

(10) Section 982.313 (Security deposit: Amounts owed by tenant); and

(11) Section 982.354 (Move with continued tenant-based assistance).

(c) *Subpart H requirements.* The following provisions of subpart H of this part do not apply to assistance under the homeownership option:

(1) Section 982.352(a)(6) (Prohibition of owner-occupied assisted unit);

(2) Section 982.352(b) (PHA-owned housing); and

(3) Those provisions of § 982.353 (Where family can lease a unit with tenant-based assistance) and § 982.355 (Portability: Administration by receiving PHA) that are inapplicable per § 982.636;

(d) *Subpart I requirements.* The following provisions of subpart I of this part do not apply to assistance under the homeownership option:

(1) Section 982.403 (Terminating HAP contract when unit is too small);

(2) Section 982.404 (Maintenance: Owner and family responsibility; PHA remedies); and

(3) Section 982.405 (PHA initial and periodic unit inspection).

(e) *Subpart J requirements.* The requirements of subpart J of this part (Housing Assistance Payments Contract and Owner Responsibility) (§§ 982.451-456) do not apply to assistance under the homeownership option.

(f) *Subpart K requirements.* Except for those sections listed below, the requirements of subpart K of this part (Rent and Housing Assistance Payment) (§§ 982.501-521) do not apply to assistance under the homeownership option:

(1) Section 982.503 (Voucher tenancy: Payment standard amount and schedule);

(2) Section 982.516 (Family income and composition: Regular and interim reexaminations); and

(3) Section 982.517 (Utility allowance schedule).

(g) *Subpart L requirements.* The following provisions of subpart L of this part do not apply to assistance under the homeownership option:

(1) Section 982.551(c) (HQS breach caused by family);

(2) Section 982.551(d) (Allowing PHA inspection);

(3) Section 982.551(e) (Violation of lease);

(4) Section 982.551(g) (Owner eviction notice); and

(5) Section 982.551(j) (Interest in unit).

(h) *Subpart M requirements.* The following provisions of subpart M of this part do not apply to assistance under the homeownership option:

(1) Sections 982.602-982.619; and

(2) Sections 982.622-982.624.

[65 FR 55163, Sept. 12, 2000, as amended at 67 FR 64494, Oct. 18, 2002; 80 FR 8247, Feb. 17, 2015; 80 FR 50575, Aug. 20, 2015]

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2024-06-06 issue
Title: 7: Agriculture - Sections changed: 436
Title: 13: Business Credit and Assistance - Sections changed: 2
Title: 15: Commerce and Foreign Trade - Sections changed: 93
Title: 48: Federal Acquisition Regulations System - Sections changed: 6
Title: 24: Housing and Urban Development - Sections changed: 136
Title: 29: Labor - Sections changed: 22
Title: 31: Money and Finance: Treasury - Sections changed: 86
Title: 33: Navigation and Navigable Waters - Sections changed: 1
Title: 41: Public Contracts and Property Management - Sections changed: 119
Title: 43: Public Lands: Interior - Sections changed: 87
Title: 50: Wildlife and Fisheries - Sections changed: 1

cfr/title-24-Housing-Urban-Development/subtitle-B-Regulations-Relating-Housing-Urban-Development/chapter-IX-Office-Assistant-Secretary-Public-Indian-Housing-Department-Housing-Urban-Development/part-982-Section-8-TenantBased-Assistance-Housing-Choice-Voucher-Program/subpart-M-Special-Housing-Types/subjectgroup-ECFRf437f8edadff613-Homeownership-Option/section-982.641.md, after:

##### § 982.641 Homeownership option: Applicability of other requirements. #####

(a) *General.* The following types of provisions (located in other subparts of this part) do not apply to assistance under the homeownership option:

(1) Any provisions concerning the Section 8 owner or the HAP contract between the PHA and owner;

(2) Any provisions concerning the assisted tenancy or the lease between the family and the owner;

(3) Any provisions concerning PHA approval of the assisted tenancy;

(4) Any provisions concerning rent to owner or reasonable rent; and

(5) Any provisions concerning the issuance or term of voucher.

(b) *Subpart G requirements.* The following provisions of subpart G of this part do not apply to assistance under the homeownership option:

(1) Section 982.302 (Issuance of voucher; Requesting PHA approval of assisted tenancy);

(2) Section 982.303 (Term of voucher);

(3) Section 982.305 (PHA approval of assisted tenancy);

(4) Section 982.306 (PHA disapproval of owner) (except that a PHA may disapprove a seller for any reason described in paragraph (c), see § 982.631(d)).

(5) Section 982.307 (Tenant screening);

(6) Section 982.308 (Lease and tenancy);

(7) Section 982.309 (Term of assisted tenancy);

(8) Section 982.310 (Owner termination of tenancy);

(9) Section 982.311 (When assistance is paid) (except that § 982.311(c)(3) is applicable to assistance under the homeownership option);

(10) Section 982.313 (Security deposit: Amounts owed by tenant); and

(11) Section 982.354 (Move with continued tenant-based assistance).

(c) *Subpart H requirements.* The following provisions of subpart H of this part do not apply to assistance under the homeownership option:

(1) Section 982.352(a)(6) (Prohibition of owner-occupied assisted unit);

(2) Section 982.352(b) (PHA-owned housing); and

(3) Those provisions of § 982.353 (Where family can lease a unit with tenant-based assistance) and § 982.355 (Portability: Administration by receiving PHA) that are inapplicable per § 982.636;

(d) *Subpart I requirements.* The following provisions of subpart I of this part do not apply to assistance under the homeownership option:

(1) Section 982.403 (Terminating HAP contract when unit is too small);

(2) Section 982.404 (Maintenance: Owner and family responsibility; PHA remedies);

(3) Section 982.405 (PHA unit inspection); and

(4) Section 982.406 (Use of alternative inspections).

(e) *Subpart J requirements.* The requirements of subpart J of this part (Housing Assistance Payments Contract and Owner Responsibility) (§§ 982.451-456) do not apply to assistance under the homeownership option.

(f) *Subpart K requirements.* Except for those sections listed below, the requirements of subpart K of this part (Rent and Housing Assistance Payment) (§§ 982.501-521) do not apply to assistance under the homeownership option:

(1) Section 982.503 (Voucher tenancy: Payment standard amount and schedule);

(2) Section 982.516 (Family income and composition: Regular and interim reexaminations); and

(3) Section 982.517 (Utility allowance schedule), except that § 982.517(d) does not apply because the utility allowance is always based on the size of the home bought by the family with homeownership assistance.

(g) *Subpart L requirements.* The following provisions of subpart L of this part do not apply to assistance under the homeownership option:

(1) Section 982.551(c) (HQS breach caused by family);

(2) Section 982.551(d) (Allowing PHA inspection);

(3) Section 982.551(e) (Violation of lease);

(4) Section 982.551(g) (Owner eviction notice); and

(5) Section 982.551(j) (Interest in unit).

(h) *Subpart M requirements.* The following provisions of subpart M of this part do not apply to assistance under the homeownership option:

(1) Sections 982.602-982.619; and

(2) Sections 982.622-982.624.

[65 FR 55163, Sept. 12, 2000, as amended at 67 FR 64494, Oct. 18, 2002; 80 FR 8247, Feb. 17, 2015; 80 FR 50575, Aug. 20, 2015; 89 FR 38304, May 7, 2024]
