##### § 90.40 Ballots. #####

The Superintendent of the Osage Agency shall have ballots printed showing the name and the office for which each candidate has been nominated and also space for showing the value of the respective ballots. The Superintendent shall have recorded on a detachable portion of each ballot the name of the voter. The value of each voter's ballot shall be recorded on the principal portion of the respective ballots. Any faction or group has the right to nominate any candidate it chooses, in accordance with the regulations prescribed in this part. The names of such candidates shall be printed on the ballot in the manner set forth as follows:

(a) Under the heading, Principal Chief, with notation to vote for one, shall appear names of all candidates for that office. Under the heading, Assistant Chief, with notation to vote for one, shall appear the names of all candidates for that office. Under the heading, Members of Council, with notation to vote for eight, shall appear names of all candidates for council. Names of candidates for office shall appear only once on ballot, regardless of the fact that they may have been nominated on more than one ticket. The order in which names of qualified candidates for office will be placed on the ballot shall be by lot method of drawing in a manner to be determined by the tribal council, and to be free from or regardless of party or factional affiliations. A candidate may use one nickname. Titles and professional designations will not be shown on the ballot. A record shall be kept of any ballots that may be mutilated, canceled, or used as samples.

(b) A space will be provided on each ballot in which the clerk prior to issuing the ballot shall note the value of the ballot which shall be exactly the same value as the voter's headright interest as shown on the last quarterly annuity roll, except any fraction of a headright shall be valued as to the first two decimals only unless such interest is less than one one-hundredth then it shall have its full value. As verification the clerk shall initial the ballot so numbered in the margin. In addition each ballot shall be stamped “Official Ballot” (facsimile signature Supervisor Osage Election Board). Should any voter spoil or mutilate his ballot in his effort to vote he may surrender the ballot to the supervisor who shall give the voter in lieu thereof another ballot which shall show its appropriate value. The spoiled or mutilated ballot or any portion of a spoiled or mutilated ballot shall be retained with other records pertaining to the election.

[32 FR 10253, July 12, 1967. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982]