##### ยง 708.4 Public announcement. #####

(a) Except to the extent that such information is exempt from disclosure under the provisions of ยง 708.5, in the case of each meeting of the Board of Directors, the Secretary shall make public announcement at least one week before the meeting, of the time, place, and subject matter of the meeting, whether it is to be open or closed to the public, and the name and telephone number of the official designated by the Corporation to respond to requests for information about the meeting. Such announcement shall be made unless a majority of the Directors determines by a recorded vote that Corporation business requires that such meeting be called at an earlier date, in which case the Secretary shall make public announcement of the time, place, and subject matter of such meeting, and whether open or closed to the public, at the earliest practicable time.

(b) The time or place of a meeting may be changed following the public announcement required by paragraph (a) of this section only if the Secretary publicly announces such change at the earliest practicable time. The subject matter of a meeting, or the determination of the Corporation to open or close a meeting, or portion of a meeting, to the public, may be changed following the public announcement required by this section only if (1) a majority of the Directors determines by a recorded vote that business so requires and that no earlier announcement of the change was possible, and (2) the Secretary publicly announces such change and the vote of each Director upon such change at the earliest practicable time.

(c) The *earliest practicable time*, as used in this subsection, means as soon as possible, which should in few, if any, instances be later than the commencement of the meeting or portion in question.

(d) The Secretary shall use reasonable means to assure that the public is fully informed of the public announcements required by this section. Such public announcements may be made by posting notices in the public areas of the Corporation's headquarters and mailing notices to the persons on a list maintained for those who want to receive such announcements.

(e) Immediately following each public announcement required by this section, notice of the time, place, and subject matter of a meeting, whether the meeting is open or closed, any change in one of the preceding announcements, and the name and telephone number of the official designated by the Corporation to respond to requests for information about the meeting shall also be submitted by the Secretary for publication in the Federal Register.