##### ยง 708.6 Records of closed meetings. #####

(a) For every meeting of the Board of Directors closed pursuant to ยง 708.5, the General Counsel of the Corporation shall publicly certify prior to such meeting that, in his or her opinion, the meeting may be closed to the public and shall state each relevant exemptive provision. A copy of such certification, together with a statement from the presiding officer of the meeting setting forth the time and place of the meeting, and the persons present, shall be retained by the Secretary as part of the transcript, recording, or minutes required by paragraph (b) of this section.

(b) The Secretary shall maintain a complete transcript or electronic recording adequate to record fully the proceedings of each meeting, or portion of a meeting, closed to the public, except that in the case of a meeting, or portion of a meeting, closed to the public pursuant to ยง 708.5(a)(9), the Secretary shall maintain either such a transcript or recording, or a set of minutes. Such minutes shall fully and clearly describe all matters discussed and shall provide a full and accurate summary of any actions taken, and the reasons therefor, including a description of each of the views expressed on any item and the record of any roll-call vote (reflecting the vote of each member on the question). All documents considered in connection with any Corporation action shall be identified in such minutes.

(c) The Secretary shall maintain a complete verbatim copy of the transcript, a complete copy of the minutes, or a complete electronic recording of each meeting, or portion of a meeting, closed to the public, for a period of at least two years after such meeting, or until one year after the conclusion of the proceeding of the Board of Directors with respect to which the meeting or portion was held, whichever occurs later.

(d) Within ten days of receipt of a request for information (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays), the Corporation shall make available to the public, in the Office of Secretary of the Corporation, Washington, DC, the transcript, electronic recording, or minutes (as required by paragraph (b) of this section) of the discussion of any item on the agenda, or of any item of the testimony of any witness received at the meeting, except for such item or items of such discussion or testimony as the Secretary determines to contain information which may be withheld under the provisions of ยง 708.5. Copies of such transcript, or minutes, or a transcription of such recording disclosing the identify of each speaker, shall be furnished to any person at the actual cost of duplication or transcription.

(e) The determination of the Secretary to withhold information pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section may be appealed to the President of the Corporation, in his or her capacity as administrative head of the Corporation. The President will make a determination to withhold or release the requested information within twenty days from the date of receipt of the request for review (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays).