##### ยง 78.10 Official vaccination of cattle moving into and out of Class B and Class C States or areas. #####

(a) Female dairy cattle born after January 1, 1984, which are 4 months of age or over must be official vaccinates to move interstate into or out of a Class B State or area4 unless they are moved interstate directly to a recognized slaughtering establishment or quarantined feedlot, or directly to an approved intermediate handling facility and then directly to a recognized slaughtering establishment, or directly to an approved intermediate handling facility and then directly to a quarantined feedlot and then directly to a recognized slaughtering establishment, or directly to an approved intermediate handling facility and then directly to a quarantined feedlot and then directly to a recognized slaughtering establishment. Female cattle eligible for official calfhood vaccination and required by this paragraph to be officially vaccinated may be moved interstate from a farm of origin directly to a specifically approved stockyard and be officially vaccinated upon arrival at the specifically approved stockyard.

4 Female cattle imported into the United States may be exempted from the vaccination requirements of this paragraph with the concurrence of the State animal health official of the State of destination. This concurrence is required prior to the importation of the cattle into the United States.

(b) Female cattle born after January 1, 1984, which are 4 months of age or over must be official vaccinates to move into a Class C State or area4 unless they are moved interstate directly to a recognized slaughtering establishiment, or directly to an approved intermediate handling facility and then directly to a recognized slaughtering establishment, or directly to an approved intermediate handling facility and then directly to a quarantined feedlot and then directly to a recognized slaughtering establishment. Female cattle eligible for official calfhood vaccination and required by this paragraph to be officially vaccinated may be moved interstate from a farm of origin directly to a specifically approved stockyard and be officially vaccinated upon arrival at the specifically approved stockyard.

(c) Female cattle born after January 1, 1984, which are 4 months of age or over must be official vaccinates to move interstate out of a Class C State or area4 inder ยง 78.9(d)(3) of this part. Female cattle from a certified brucellosis-free herd that are eligible for official calfhood vaccination and required by this paragraph to be officially vaccinated may be moved interstate from a farm of origin directly to a specifically approved stockyard and be officially vaccinated upon arrival at the specifically approved stockyard.

[51 FR 32580, Sept. 12, 1986, as amended at 54 FR 1926, Jan. 18, 1989; 56 FR 58638, Nov. 21, 1991]