##### ยง 160.044-4 Inspection and tests. #####

(a) *Capacity.* The bilge pump being tested shall be set up over a source of water for operation with all the required fittings and connections, the set-up to simulate an installation in a lifeboat. The bilge pump shall be operated at the standard speed specified for its size, and the flow of water measured. The amount of water discharged shall not be less than that required by ยง 160.044-2(b).

(b) *Head pressure.* After the successful completion of the test outlined in paragraph (b) of this section, a pressure gage capable of registering 20 pounds per square inch, and a variable restriction, such as a nozzle, valve, etc., shall be fitted in the discharge line. The pump shall be put in operation with the discharge line open, and then the restriction shall be gradually closed until the pressure builds up to at least 20 pounds per square inch. This pressure shall be maintained for at least 15 seconds, after which the pump shall be disassembled and inspected. No destruction or deformation of parts sufficient to affect the serviceability of the pump shall be permitted as a result of this test.

(c) *Operating lever.* With the pump firmly secured in such a position that both the shaft and operating lever are in a horizontal position, apply a downward load of 200 pounds for a period of 5 minutes at the free end of the operating lever and perpendicular to its axis and the axis of the shaft. There shall be no slippage of the lever around the shaft, nor any evidence of permanent set or undue stress in any part of the pump. In cases where the design of the pump is such that this test may not be applicable to the complete pump, the pump shall be disassembled and the 200-pound load applied to the shaft and operating lever while the free end of the shaft is held in a vise or check so that both the shaft and the operating lever are in a horizontal position.

[CGFR 65-9, 30 FR 11467, Sept. 8, 1965, as amended by CGD 95-028, 62 FR 51213, Sept. 30, 1997]