##### § 3030.526 Calculation of unused rate adjustment authority for Type 1-A and Type 1-B rate adjustments. #####

(a) Unused rate adjustment authority accrues during the entire period between notices of Type 1-A and Type 1-B rate adjustments. When notices of Type 1-A or Type 1-B rate adjustments are filed 12 months apart or less, the unused rate adjustment authority is the annual unused rate adjustment authority calculated under paragraph (b) of this section. When notices of Type 1-A or Type 1-B rate adjustments are filed more than 12 months apart, unused rate adjustment authority is the sum of the annual unused rate adjustment calculated under paragraph (b) of this section plus the interim unused rate adjustment authority calculated under paragraph (c)(2) of this section, less any interim unused rate adjustment authority used in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.

(b) When notices of Type 1-A or Type 1-B rate adjustments are filed 12 months apart or less, annual unused rate adjustment authority will be calculated. Annual unused rate adjustment authority for a class is equal to the difference between the annual limitation calculated pursuant to § 3030.521 or § 3030.522 and the percentage change in rates for the class calculated pursuant to § 3030.523(b)(1).

(c)(1) When notices of Type 1-A or Type 1-B rate adjustments are filed more than 12 months apart, annual unused rate adjustment authority will be calculated for the 12-month period ending on the date on which the second notice is filed and interim unused rate adjustment authority will be calculated for the period beginning on the date the first notice is filed and ending on the day before the date that is 12 months before the second notice is filed.

(2) Interim unused rate adjustment authority is equal to the Base Average applicable to the second notice of rate adjustment (as developed pursuant to § 3030.521(b)) divided by the Recent Average utilized in the first notice of rate adjustment (as developed pursuant to § 3030.521(b)) and subtracting 1 from the quotient. The result is expressed as a percentage.

(d) Interim unused rate adjustment authority may be used to make a rate adjustment pursuant to the notice of rate adjustment that led to its calculation. If interim unused rate adjustment authority is used to make such a rate adjustment, the interim unused rate adjustment authority generated pursuant to the notice shall first be added to the schedule of unused rate adjustment authority devised and maintained under paragraph (f) of this section as the most recent entry. Then, any interim unused rate adjustment authority used in accordance with this paragraph shall be subtracted from the existing unused rate adjustment authority using a first-in, first-out (FIFO) method, beginning 5 years before the instant notice.

(e) Unused rate adjustment authority generated under this section lapses 5 years after the date of filing of the notice of rate adjustment leading to its calculation.

(f) Upon the establishment of unused rate adjustment authority in any class, the Postal Service shall devise and maintain a schedule that tracks the establishment and subsequent use of unused rate adjustment authority for that class.

[78 FR 52704, Aug. 26, 2013, as amended at 79 FR 33834, June 12, 2014. Redesignated and amended at 85 FR 9615, 9658, Feb. 19, 2020]