##### § 3002.2 Statutory functions. #####

(a) *Areas of jurisdiction.* The Commission develops and maintains regulations for a modern system of rate regulation, including maintaining the market dominant and competitive product lists in the Mail Classification Schedule and ensuring that rates meet the requirements of 39 U.S.C. 3622 and 3633. The Commission consults with the Postal Service on delivery service standards and performance measures and with the Department of State on international postal policies. The Commission adjudicates rate and service complaints filed pursuant to 39 U.S.C. 3662 and offers advisory opinions on proposed changes to postal services pursuant to 39 U.S.C. 3661. Pursuant to 39 U.S.C. 3651, the Commission provides an annual report to the President and Congress, and pursuant to 39 U.S.C. 3653, the Commission issues an annual compliance determination to assess whether the Postal Service's rates, fees, and services comport with the requirements of title 39. Pursuant to 39 U.S.C. 404(d)(5), the Commission acts on postal patrons' appeals concerning Postal Service decisions to close or consolidate post offices.

(b) *Public participation.* Interested persons may participate in formal proceedings described in §§ 3001.17 and 3001.18 of this chapter as formal intervenors (§ 3001.20 of this chapter), limited participators (§ 3001.20a of this chapter), or commenters (§ 3001.20b of this chapter). Pursuant to 39 U.S.C. 3662(a) and part 3030 of this chapter, any interested person may lodge rate and service complaints with the Commission. Persons served by a post office that the Postal Service decides to close or consolidate may appeal such determinations in accordance with 39 U.S.C. 404(d) and part 3025 of this chapter.