##### § 201.440 Appeal of determinations by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board. #####

(a) *Application for review; when available.* Any person who is aggrieved by a determination of the Board with respect to any final disciplinary sanction, including disapproval of a completed application for registration of a public accounting firm, may file an application for review.

(b) *Procedure.* An aggrieved person may file an application for review with the Commission pursuant to § 201.151 within 30 days after the notice filed by the Board of its determination with the Commission pursuant to 17 CFR 240.19d-4 is received by the aggrieved person applying for review. The applicant shall serve the application on the Board at the same time. The application shall identify the determination complained of, set forth in summary form a brief statement of alleged errors in the determination and supporting reasons therefor, and state an address where the applicant can be served. The application should not exceed two pages in length. The notice of appearance required by § 201.102(d) shall accompany the application. Any exception to a determination not supported in an opening brief that complies with § 201.450(b) may, at the discretion of the Commission, be deemed to have been waived by the applicant.

(c) *Stay of determination.* Filing an application for review with the Commission pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section operates as a stay of the Board's determination unless the Commission otherwise orders either pursuant to a motion filed in accordance with § 201.401(e) or upon its own motion.

(d) *Certification of the record; service of the index.* Within fourteen days after receipt of an application for review, the Board shall certify and file with the Commission one copy of the record upon which it took the complained-of action. The Board shall file with the Commission three copies of an index of such record, and shall serve one copy of the index on each party.

[69 FR 13179, Mar. 19, 2004, as amended at 81 FR 50241, July 29, 2016]