##### ยง 49.10 Acceptance of data. #####

(a) A registered swap data repository shall establish, maintain, and enforce policies and procedures for the reporting of swap data to the registered swap data repository and shall accept and promptly record all swap data in its selected asset class and other regulatory information that is required to be reported pursuant to part 45 and part 43 of this chapter by designated contract markets, derivatives clearing organizations, swap execution facilities, swap dealers, major swap participants and/or non-swap dealer/non-major swap participant counterparties.

(1) *Electronic connectivity.* For the purpose of accepting all swap data as required by part 45 and part 43, the registered swap data repository shall adopt policies and procedures, including technological protocols, which provide for electronic connectivity between the swap data repository and designated contract markets, derivatives clearing organizations, swaps execution facilities, swap dealers, major swap participants and/or certain other non-swap dealer/non-major swap participant counterparties who report such data. The technological protocols established by a swap data repository shall provide for the receipt of swap creation data, swap continuation data, real-time public reporting data, and all other data and information required to be reported to such swap data repository. The swap data repository shall ensure that its mechanisms for swap data acceptance are reliable and secure.

(b) A registered swap data repository shall set forth in its application for registration as described in ยง 49.3 the specific asset class or classes for which it will accept swaps data. If a swap data repository accepts swap data of a particular asset class, then it shall accept data from all swaps of that asset class, unless otherwise prescribed by the Commission.

(c) A registered swap data repository shall establish policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent any provision in a valid swap from being invalidated or modified through the confirmation or recording process of the swap data repository. The policies and procedures must ensure that the swap data repository's user agreements are designed to prevent any such invalidation or modification.

(d) A registered swap data repository shall establish procedures and provide facilities for effectively resolving disputes over the accuracy of the swap data and positions that are recorded in the registered swap data repository.