##### ยง 49.23 Emergency authority policies and procedures. #####

(a) *Emergency policies and procedures required.* A registered swap data repository shall establish policies and procedures for the exercise of emergency authority in the event of any emergency, including but not limited to natural, man-made, and information technology emergencies. Such policies and procedures shall also require a swap data repository to exercise its emergency authority upon request by the Commission. A swap data repository's policies and procedures for the exercise of emergency authority shall be transparent to the Commission and to market participants whose swap transaction data resides at the swap data repository.

(b) *Invocation of emergency authority.* A registered swap data repository's policies and procedures for the exercise of emergency authority shall enumerate the circumstances under which the swap data repository is authorized to invoke its emergency authority and the procedures that it shall follow to declare an emergency. Such policies and procedures shall also address the range of measures that it is authorized to take when exercising such emergency authority.

(c) *Designation of persons authorized to act in an emergency.* A registered swap data repository shall designate one or more officials of the swap data repository as persons authorized to exercise emergency authority on its behalf. A swap data repository shall also establish a chain of command to be used in the event that the designated person(s) is unavailable. A swap data repository shall notify the Commission of the person(s) designated to exercise emergency authority.

(d) *Conflicts of interest.* A registered swap data repository's policies and procedures for the exercise of emergency authority shall include provisions to avoid conflicts of interest in any decisions made pursuant to emergency authority. Such policies and procedures shall also include provisions to consult the swap data repository's chief compliance officer in any emergency decision that may raise potential conflicts of interest.

(e) *Notification to the commission.* A registered swap data repository's policies and procedures for the exercise of emergency authority shall include provisions to notify the Commission as soon as reasonably practicable regarding any invocation of emergency authority. When notifying the Commission of any exercise of emergency authority, a swap data repository shall explain the reasons for taking such emergency action, explain how conflicts of interest were minimized, and document the decision-making process. Underlying documentation shall be made available to the Commission upon request.