##### ยง 20.717 Rule 717. Loss of hearing tapes or transcripts - motion for new hearing. #####

(a) *Motion for new hearing.* In the event that a hearing has not been recorded in whole or in part due to equipment failure or other cause, or the official transcript of the hearing is lost or destroyed and the recording upon which it was based is no longer available, an appellant or his or her representative may move for a new hearing. The motion must be in writing and must specify why prejudice would result from the failure to provide a new hearing.

(b) *Time limit for filing motion for a new hearing.* The motion will not be granted if there has been no request for a new hearing within a period of 120 days from the date of a final Board of Veterans' Appeals decision or, in cases appealed to the United States Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims, if there has been no request for a new hearing within a reasonable period of time after the appeal to that Court has been filed.

(c) *Where motion for a new hearing is filed.* In the case of hearings held before the Board of Veterans' Appeals, whether in Washington, DC, or in the field, the motion must be filed with: Director, Office of Management, Planning and Analysis (014), Board of Veterans' Appeals, P.O. Box 27063, Washington, DC 20038.

(d) *Ruling on motion for a new hearing.* The ruling on the motion for a new hearing will be made by the Member who presided over the hearing. If the presiding Member is no longer available, the ruling on the motion may be made by the Member or Members to whom the case has been assigned for a determination. In cases in which a final Board of Veterans' Appeals decision has already been promulgated with respect to the appeal in question, the Chairman will assign the matter in accordance with ยง 19.3 of this title. Factors to be considered in ruling on the motion include, but will not be limited to, the extent of the loss of the record in those cases where only a portion of a hearing tape is unintelligible or only a portion of a transcript has been lost or destroyed, and the extent and reasonableness of any delay in moving for a new hearing. If a new hearing is granted in a case in which a final Board of Veterans' Appeals decision has already been promulgated, a supplemental decision will be issued.

(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 7102, 7105(a), 7107)[57 FR 4109, Feb. 3, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 27936, May 12, 1993; 61 FR 20452, May 7, 1996; 65 FR 14472, Mar. 17, 2000; 81 FR 32650, May 24, 2016]