##### ยง 20.713 Rule 713. Hearings in simultaneously contested claims. #####

(a) *General.* If a hearing is scheduled for any party to a simultaneously contested claim, the other contesting claimants and their representatives, if any, will be notified and afforded an opportunity to be present. The appellant will be allowed to present opening testimony and argument. Thereafter, any other contesting party who wishes to do so may present testimony and argument. The appellant will then be allowed an opportunity to present testimony and argument in rebuttal. Cross-examination will not be allowed.

(b) *Requests for changes in hearing dates.* Any party to a simultaneously contested claim may request a change in a hearing date in accordance with the provisions of Rule 702, paragraph (c) (ยง 20.702(c) of this part), or Rule 704, paragraph (c) (ยง 20.704(c) of this part), as applicable. In order to obtain a new hearing date under the provisions of Rule 702, paragraph (c)(1), the consent of all other interested parties must be obtained and submitted with the request for a new hearing date. If such consent is not obtained, paragraph (c)(2) of that rule will apply even though the request is submitted within 60 days from the date of the letter of notification of the time and place of the hearing. A copy of any motion for a new hearing date required by these rules must be mailed to all other interested parties by certified mail, return receipt requested. The receipts, which must bear the signatures of the other interested parties, and a letter explaining that they relate to the motion for a new hearing date and containing the applicable Department of Veterans Affairs file number must be filed at the same address where the motion was filed as proof of service of the motion. Each interested party will be allowed a period of 10 days from the date that the copy of the motion was received by that party to file written argument in response to the motion.

(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 7105A)