##### ยง 9.32 Requesting appeals. #####

(a) *General.* If any party desires review of the determination of the Administrator, including judicial review, a request for an Administrative Law Judge hearing or petition for review by the Administrative Review Board must first be filed in accordance with ยง 9.31(b) of this part.

(b) *Process.* (1) *For Administrative Law Judge hearing.* (i) *General.* Any aggrieved party may file a request for a hearing by an Administrative Law Judge within 20 days of the determination of the Administrator. The request for a hearing shall be accompanied by a copy of the determination of the Administrator and may be filed by U.S. mail, facsimile (FAX), telegram, hand delivery, next-day delivery, or a similar service. At the same time, a copy of any request for a hearing shall be sent to the complainant(s) or successor contractor, and their representatives, if any, as appropriate; the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division; and the Associate Solicitor, Division of Fair Labor Standards, U.S. Department of Labor, Washington, DC 20210.

(ii) *By the complainant.* The complainant or any other interested party may request a hearing where the Administrator determines, after investigation, that there is no basis for a finding that a contractor has committed violation(s), or where the complainant or other interested party believes that the Administrator has ordered inadequate monetary relief. In such a proceeding, the party requesting the hearing shall be the prosecuting party and the contractor shall be the respondent; the Administrator may intervene as a party or appear as amicus curiae at any time in the proceeding, at the Administrator's discretion.

(iii) *By the contractor.* The contractor or any other interested party may request a hearing where the Administrator determines, after investigation, that the contractor has committed violation(s). In such a proceeding, the Administrator shall be the prosecuting party and the contractor shall be the respondent.

(2) *For Administrative Review Board review.* (i) *General.* Any aggrieved party desiring review of a determination of the Administrator in which there were no relevant facts in dispute, or an Administrative Law Judge's decision, shall file a written petition for review with the Administrative Review Board that must be postmarked within 20 days of the date of the determination or decision and shall be served on all parties and, where the case involves an appeal from an Administrative Law Judge's decision, the Chief Administrative Law Judge. *See also* ยง 9.32(b)(1) of this part.

(ii) *Contents and service.* (A) A petition for review shall refer to the specific findings of fact, conclusions of law, or order at issue.

(B) Copies of the petition and all briefs shall be served on the Administrator, Wage and Hour Division, and on the Associate Solicitor, Division of Fair Labor Standards, U.S. Department of Labor, Washington, DC 20210.

(c) *Effect of filing.* If a timely request for hearing or petition for review is filed, the determination of the Administrator or the decision of the Administrative Law Judge shall be inoperative unless and until the Administrative Review Board issues an order affirming the determination or decision, or the determination or decision otherwise becomes a final order of the Secretary. If a petition for review concerns only the imposition of ineligibility sanctions, however, the remainder of the decision shall be effective immediately. No judicial review shall be available unless a timely petition for review to the Administrative Review Board is first filed.