##### § 9.31 Determination of the Administrator. #####

(a) *Written determination.* Upon completion of an investigation under § 9.23 of this part, and provided that a resolution is not reached that is consistent with the requirements of this part and acceptable to both the complainant(s) and the successor contractor, the Administrator will issue a written determination of whether a violation has occurred. The determination shall contain a statement of the investigation findings and conclusions. A determination that a violation occurred shall address appropriate relief and the issue of ineligibility sanctions where appropriate. The Administrator will notify any complainant(s); employee representative(s); contractor, including the prime contractor if a subcontractor is implicated; and contractor representative(s) by personal service or by registered or certified mail to the last known address, of the investigation findings. Where service by certified mail is not accepted by the party, the Administrator may exercise discretion to serve the determination by regular mail.

(b) *Notice to parties and effect.* (1) *Relevant facts in dispute.* Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the determination of the Administrator shall advise the parties (ordinarily any complainant, the successor contractor, and any of their representatives) that the notice of determination shall become the final order of the Secretary and shall not be appealable in any administrative or judicial proceeding unless, postmarked within 20 days of the date of the determination of the Administrator, the Chief Administrative Law Judge receives a request for a hearing pursuant to § 9.32(b)(1) of this part. A detailed statement of the reasons why the Administrator's ruling is in error, including facts alleged to be in dispute, if any, shall be submitted with the request for a hearing. The Administrator's determination not to seek ineligibility sanctions shall not be appealable.

(2) *Relevant facts not in dispute.* If the Administrator concludes that no relevant facts are in dispute, the parties and their representatives, if any, will be so advised and will be further advised that the determination shall become the final order of the Secretary and shall not be appealable in any administrative or judicial proceeding unless, postmarked within 20 days of the date of the determination of the Administrator, a petition for review is filed with the Administrative Review Board pursuant to § 9.32(b)(2) of this part. The determination will further advise that if an aggrieved party disagrees with the factual findings or believes there are relevant facts in dispute, the aggrieved party may advise the Administrator of the disputed facts and request a hearing by letter, which must be received within 20 days of the date of the determination. The Administrator will either refer the request for a hearing to the Chief Administrative Law Judge, or notify the parties and their representatives, if any, of the determination of the Administrator that there is no relevant issue of fact and that a petition for review may be filed with the Administrative Review Board within 20 days of the date of the notice, in accordance with the procedures at § 9.32(b)(2) of this part.