cfr/title-42-Public-Health/chapter-IV-Centers-Medicare-amp-Medicaid-Services-Department-Health-Human-Services/subchapter-G-Standards-Certification/part-485-Conditions-Participation-Specialized-Providers/subpart-F-Conditions-Participation-Critical-Access-Hospitals-CAHs/section-485.631.md, before:

##### § 485.631 Condition of participation: Staffing and staff responsibilities. #####

Link to an amendment published at 87 FR 72308, Nov. 23, 2022.

(a) *Standard: Staffing* - (1) The CAH has a professional health care staff that includes one or more doctors of medicine or osteopathy, and may include one or more physician assistants, nurse practitioners, or clinical nurse specialists.

(2) Any ancillary personnel are supervised by the professional staff.

(3) The staff is sufficient to provide the services essential to the operation of the CAH.

(4) A doctor of medicine or osteopathy, nurse practitioner, clinical nurse specialist, or physician assistant is available to furnish patient care services at all times the CAH operates.

(5) A registered nurse, clinical nurse specialist, or licensed practical nurse is on duty whenever the CAH has one or more inpatients.

(b) *Standard: Responsibilities of the doctor of medicine or osteopathy.* (1) The doctor of medicine or osteopathy -

(i) Provides medical direction for the CAH's health care activities and consultation for, and medical supervision of, the health care staff;

(ii) In conjunction with the physician assistant and/or nurse practitioner member(s), participates in developing, executing, and periodically reviewing the CAH's written policies governing the services it furnishes.

(iii) In conjunction with the physician assistant and/or nurse practitioner members, periodically reviews the CAH's patient records, provides medical orders, and provides medical care services to the patients of the CAH; and

(iv) Periodically reviews and signs the records of all inpatients cared for by nurse practitioners, clinical nurse specialists, certified nurse midwives, or physician assistants.

(v) Periodically reviews and signs a sample of outpatient records of patients cared for by nurse practitioners, clinical nurse specialists, certified nurse midwives, or physician assistants only to the extent required under State law where State law requires record reviews or co-signatures, or both, by a collaborating physician.

(2) A doctor of medicine or osteopathy is present for sufficient periods of time to provide medical direction, consultation, and supervision for the services provided in the CAH, and is available through direct radio or telephone communication or electronic communication for consultation, assistance with medical emergencies, or patient referral.

(c) *Standard: Physician assistant, nurse practitioner, and clinical nurse specialist responsibilities.* (1) The physician assistant, the nurse practitioner, or clinical nurse specialist members of the CAH's staff -

(i) Participate in the development, execution and periodic review of the written policies governing the services the CAH furnishes; and

(ii) Participate with a doctor of medicine or osteopathy in a periodic review of the patients' health records.

(2) The physician assistant, nurse practitioner, or clinical nurse specialist performs the following functions to the extent they are not being performed by a doctor of medicine or osteopathy:

(i) Provides services in accordance with the CAH's policies.

(ii) Arranges for, or refers patients to, needed services that cannot be furnished at the CAH, and assures that adequate patient health records are maintained and transferred as required when patients are referred.

(3) Whenever a patient is admitted to the CAH by a nurse practitioner, physician assistant, or clinical nurse specialist, a doctor of medicine or osteopathy on the staff of the CAH is notified of the admission.

(d) *Standard: Periodic review of clinical privileges and performance.* The CAH requires that -

(1) The quality and appropriateness of the diagnosis and treatment furnished by nurse practitioners, clinical nurse specialist, and physician assistants at the CAH are evaluated by a member of the CAH staff who is a doctor of medicine or osteopathy or by another doctor of medicine or osteopathy under contract with the CAH.

(2) The quality and appropriateness of the diagnosis and treatment furnished by doctors of medicine or osteopathy at the CAH are evaluated by -

(i) One hospital that is a member of the network, when applicable;

(ii) One Quality Improvement Organization (QIO) or equivalent entity;

(iii) One other appropriate and qualified entity identified in the State rural health care plan;

(iv) In the case of distant-site physicians and practitioners providing telemedicine services to the CAH's patient under an agreement between the CAH and a distant-site hospital, the distant-site hospital; or

(v) In the case of distant-site physicians and practitioners providing telemedicine services to the CAH's patients under a written agreement between the CAH and a distant-site telemedicine entity, one of the entities listed in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(3) The CAH staff consider the findings of the evaluation and make the necessary changes as specified in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section.

[58 FR 30671, May 26, 1993, as amended at 62 FR 46037, Aug. 29, 1997; 70 FR 68728, Nov. 10, 2005; 79 FR 27155, May 12, 2014; 84 FR 51827, Sept. 30, 2019]

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2023-01-01 issue
Title: 7: Agriculture - Sections changed: 5
Title: 12: Banks and Banking - Sections changed: 68
Title: 13: Business Credit and Assistance - Sections changed: 57
Title: 15: Commerce and Foreign Trade - Sections changed: 1
Title: 16: Commercial Practices - Sections changed: 6
Title: 17: Commodity and Securities Exchanges - Sections changed: 3
Title: 19: Customs Duties - Sections changed: 4
Title: 48: Federal Acquisition Regulations System - Sections changed: 1
Title: 29: Labor - Sections changed: 1
Title: 37: Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights - Sections changed: 12
Title: 42: Public Health - Sections changed: 181
Title: 50: Wildlife and Fisheries - Sections changed: 55

cfr/title-42-Public-Health/chapter-IV-Centers-Medicare-amp-Medicaid-Services-Department-Health-Human-Services/subchapter-G-Standards-Certification/part-485-Conditions-Participation-Specialized-Providers/subpart-F-Conditions-Participation-Critical-Access-Hospitals-CAHs/section-485.631.md, after:

##### § 485.631 Condition of participation: Staffing and staff responsibilities. #####

(a) *Standard: Staffing*—(1) The CAH has a professional health care staff that includes one or more doctors of medicine or osteopathy, and may include one or more physician assistants, nurse practitioners, or clinical nurse specialists.

(2) Any ancillary personnel are supervised by the professional staff.

(3) The staff is sufficient to provide the services essential to the operation of the CAH.

(4) A doctor of medicine or osteopathy, nurse practitioner, clinical nurse specialist, or physician assistant is available to furnish patient care services at all times the CAH operates.

(5) A registered nurse, clinical nurse specialist, or licensed practical nurse is on duty whenever the CAH has one or more inpatients.

(b) *Standard: Responsibilities of the doctor of medicine or osteopathy.* (1) The doctor of medicine or osteopathy—

(i) Provides medical direction for the CAH's health care activities and consultation for, and medical supervision of, the health care staff;

(ii) In conjunction with the physician assistant and/or nurse practitioner member(s), participates in developing, executing, and periodically reviewing the CAH's written policies governing the services it furnishes.

(iii) In conjunction with the physician assistant and/or nurse practitioner members, periodically reviews the CAH's patient records, provides medical orders, and provides medical care services to the patients of the CAH; and

(iv) Periodically reviews and signs the records of all inpatients cared for by nurse practitioners, clinical nurse specialists, certified nurse midwives, or physician assistants.

(v) Periodically reviews and signs a sample of outpatient records of patients cared for by nurse practitioners, clinical nurse specialists, certified nurse midwives, or physician assistants only to the extent required under State law where State law requires record reviews or co-signatures, or both, by a collaborating physician.

(2) A doctor of medicine or osteopathy is present for sufficient periods of time to provide medical direction, consultation, and supervision for the services provided in the CAH, and is available through direct radio or telephone communication or electronic communication for consultation, assistance with medical emergencies, or patient referral.

(c) *Standard: Physician assistant, nurse practitioner, and clinical nurse specialist responsibilities.* (1) The physician assistant, the nurse practitioner, or clinical nurse specialist members of the CAH's staff—

(i) Participate in the development, execution and periodic review of the written policies governing the services the CAH furnishes; and

(ii) Participate with a doctor of medicine or osteopathy in a periodic review of the patients' health records.

(2) The physician assistant, nurse practitioner, or clinical nurse specialist performs the following functions to the extent they are not being performed by a doctor of medicine or osteopathy:

(i) Provides services in accordance with the CAH's policies.

(ii) Arranges for, or refers patients to, needed services that cannot be furnished at the CAH, and assures that adequate patient health records are maintained and transferred as required when patients are referred.

(3) Whenever a patient is admitted to the CAH by a nurse practitioner, physician assistant, or clinical nurse specialist, a doctor of medicine or osteopathy on the staff of the CAH is notified of the admission.

(d) *Standard: Periodic review of clinical privileges and performance.* The CAH requires that—

(1) The quality and appropriateness of the diagnosis and treatment furnished by nurse practitioners, clinical nurse specialist, and physician assistants at the CAH are evaluated by a member of the CAH staff who is a doctor of medicine or osteopathy or by another doctor of medicine or osteopathy under contract with the CAH.

(2) The quality and appropriateness of the diagnosis and treatment furnished by doctors of medicine or osteopathy at the CAH are evaluated by—

(i) One hospital that is a member of the network, when applicable;

(ii) One Quality Improvement Organization (QIO) or equivalent entity;

(iii) One other appropriate and qualified entity identified in the State rural health care plan;

(iv) In the case of distant-site physicians and practitioners providing telemedicine services to the CAH's patient under an agreement between the CAH and a distant-site hospital, the distant-site hospital; or

(v) In the case of distant-site physicians and practitioners providing telemedicine services to the CAH's patients under a written agreement between the CAH and a distant-site telemedicine entity, one of the entities listed in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(3) The CAH staff consider the findings of the evaluation and make the necessary changes as specified in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section.

(e) *Standard: Unified and integrated medical staff for a CAH in a multi-facility system.* If a CAH is part of a system consisting of multiple separately certified hospitals, CAHs, and/or REHs, and the system elects to have a unified and integrated medical staff for its member hospitals, CAHs, and/or REHs after determining that such a decision is in accordance with all applicable state and local laws, each separately certified CAH must demonstrate that:

(1) The medical staff members of each separately certified CAH in the system (that is, all medical staff members who hold specific privileges to practice at that CAH) have voted by majority, in accordance with medical staff bylaws, either to accept a unified and integrated medical staff structure or to opt out of such a structure and to maintain a separate and distinct medical staff for their respective CAH;

(2) The unified and integrated medical staff has bylaws, rules, and requirements that describe its processes for self-governance, appointment, credentialing, privileging, and oversight, as well as its peer review policies and due process rights guarantees, and which include a process for the members of the medical staff of each separately certified CAH (that is, all medical staff members who hold specific privileges to practice at that CAH) to be advised of their rights to opt out of the unified and integrated medical staff structure after a majority vote by the members to maintain a separate and distinct medical staff for their CAH;

(3) The unified and integrated medical staff is established in a manner that takes into account each member CAH's unique circumstances and any significant differences in patient populations and services offered in each hospital, CAH, and REH; and

(4) The unified and integrated medical staff establishes and implements policies and procedures to ensure that the needs and concerns expressed by members of the medical staff, at each of its separately certified hospitals, CAHs, and REHs, regardless of practice or location, are given due consideration, and that the unified and integrated medical staff has mechanisms in place to ensure that issues localized to particular hospitals, CAHs, and REHs are duly considered and addressed.

[58 FR 30671, May 26, 1993, as amended at 62 FR 46037, Aug. 29, 1997; 70 FR 68728, Nov. 10, 2005; 79 FR 27155, May 12, 2014; 84 FR 51827, Sept. 30, 2019; 87 FR 72308, Nov. 23, 2022]
