##### ยง 507.10 Incorporation of designs or likenesses of approved designs in commercial articles. #####

The policy of the Department of the Army and the Department of the Air Force is to restrict the use of military designs for the needs or the benefit of personnel of their Services.

(a) Except as authorized in writing by the Department of the Army or the Department of the Air Force, as applicable, the manufacture of commercial articles incorporating designs or likenesses of official Army/Air Force heraldic items is prohibited. However, certain designs or likenesses of insignia such as badges or organizational insignia may be incorporated in articles manufactured for sale provided that permission has been granted as specified in paragraphs (a) (1) and (2) of this section.

(1) *Designs approved for use of the Army.* The Director, The Institute of Heraldry, 9325 Gunston Road, Room S-112, Fort Belvoir, VA 22060-5579, is responsible for granting permission for the incorporation of certain Army insignia designs and the Army emblem in commercial articles manufactured for sale. Permission for such use will be in writing. Commanders of units authorized a SSI or DUI may authorize the reproduction of their SSI or DUI on commercial articles such as shirts, tie tacks, cups, or plaques. Permission for use of a SSI or DUI will be submitted in writing to the commander concerned. Authorization for incorporation of designs or likenesses of designs in commercial items will be granted only to those manufacturers who agree to offer these items for sale only to Army and Air Force Exchange Service and outlets that sell primarily to military personnel and their dependents.

(2) *Designs approved for use of the Air Force.* Headquarters, Air Force Personnel Center, Chief, Commander's Programs Branch (HQ AFPC/DPSFC), 550 C Street West, Suite 37, Randolph AFB, TX 78150-4739, is responsible for granting permission for the incorporation of certain Air Force designs for commercial articles manufactured for sale. The Commander, Air Force Historical Research Agency, AFHRA/RSO, Maxwell AFB, AL 36112-6678, is responsible for granting permission for the incorporation of the coat of arms, crest, seal and organizational emblems. Such permission will be in writing. Authorization for incorporation of designs or likenesses of designs in commercial items will be granted only to those manufacturers who agree to offer these items for sale only to the Army and Air Force Exchange Service, or to those outlets that sell primarily to military personnel and their dependents.

(b) In the case of the Honorable Service lapel button, a general exception is made to permit the incorporation of that design in articles manufactured for public sale provided that such articles are not suitable for wear as lapel buttons or pins.