##### § 90.18 Reconsideration of determinations. #####

(a) *Determinations subject to reconsideration; time for filing.* Any worker, group of workers, certified or recognized union, or authorized representative of such worker or group, aggrieved by a determination issued pursuant to the Act and § 90.16 paragraphs (c), (f), and (g), or § 90.17(d) may file an application for reconsideration of the determination with the Division of Trade Adjustment Assistance, Employment and Training Administration, U.S. Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington DC 20210. All applications must be in writing and must be filed no later than thirty (30) days after the notice of the determination has been published in the Federal Register.

(b) *Contents of application for reconsideration.* An application for reconsideration shall include: (1) Name(s), address(es), and telephone number of the applicant(s); (2) The name or a description of the group of workers on whose behalf the application for reconsideration is filed; (3) The name and case number of the determination complained of; and (4) A statement of reasons for believing that the determination complained of is erroneous. If the application is based, in whole or in part, on facts not previously considered in the determination, such facts shall be specifically set forth. If the application is based, in whole or in part, on an allegation that the determination complained of was based on mistake of facts which were previously considered, such mistake of facts shall be specifically set forth. If the application is based, in whole or in part, on an allegation as to a misinterpretation of facts or of the law, such misinterpretation shall be specifically set forth.

(c) *Determination regarding application for reconsideration.* Not later than fifteen (15) days after receipt of the application for reconsideration, the certifying officer shall make and issue a determination granting or denying reconsideration. The certifying officer may grant an application for reconsideration under the following circumstances:

(1) If it appears on the basis of facts not previously considered that the determination complained of was erroneous;

(2) If it appears that the determination complained of was based on mistake in the determination of facts previously considered; or

(3) If, in the opinion of the certifying officer, a misinterpretation of facts or of the law justifies reconsideration of the determination.

(d) *Notice of affirmative determination regarding application for reconsideration.* Upon reaching a determination that an application for reconsideration meets the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section, the certifying officer shall issue an affirmative determination regarding the application and shall promptly publish notice in the Federal Register that the application for reconsideration has been received and granted. Such notice shall constitute a Notice of Affirmative Determination Regarding Application for Reconsideration.

(e) *Notice of negative determination regarding application for reconsideration.* Upon reaching a determination that an application for reconsideration does not meet the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section, the certifying officer shall issue a negative determination regarding the application and shall promptly publish in the Federal Register a summary of the determination, including the reasons therefor. Such summary shall constitute a Notice of Negative Determination Regarding Application for Reconsideration. A determination issued pursuant to this paragraph shall constitute a final determination for purposes of judicial review pursuant to section 284 of the Act, 19 U.S.C. 2395, and § 90.19(a).

(f) *Opportunity for comment.* Within ten (10) days after publication of a notice under paragraph (d) of this section, the group of workers or other persons showing an interest in the proceedings may make written submissions to show why the determination under reconsideration should or should not be modified.

(g) *Determinations on reconsideration.* Not later than forty-five (45) days after reaching an Affirmative Determination Regarding Application for Reconsideration, the certifying officer shall make a determination on the reconsideration.

(h) *Notice of revised certification of eligibility and notice of revised determination.* Upon reaching a determination on reconsideration that a group of workers has met all the requirements set forth in section 222 of the Act and paragraph (b) of § 90.16, the certifying officer shall issue a revised determination concerning certification of eligibility to apply for adjustment assistance and shall promptly publish in the Federal Register a summary of the revised determination together with the reasons for making such revised determination (with the exception of information which the certifying officer determines to be confidential). Such summary shall include a certification of eligibility in accordance with paragraph (d) of § 90.16. The summary shall constitute a Notice of Revised Certification of Eligibility when the determination under reconsideration was a certification of eligibility. The summary shall constitute a Notice of Revised Determination when the determination under reconsideration was a negative determination or a certification containing a negative determination. A determination issued pursuant to this paragraph shall constitute a final determination for purposes of judicial review pursuant to section 284 of the Act, 19 U.S.C. 2395, and § 90.19(a).

(i) *Notice of negative determination on reconsideration.* Upon reaching a determination on reconsideration that a group of workers has not met all the requirements set forth in section 222 of the Act and paragraph (b) of § 90.16, the certifying officer shall issue a negative determination on reconsideration and shall promptly publish in the Federal Register a summary of the determination together with the reasons for making such determination (with the exception of information which the certifying officer determines to be confidential). Such summary shall constitute a Notice of Negative Determination on Reconsideration. A determination issued pursuant to this paragraph shall constitute a final determination for purposes of judicial review pursuant to section 284 of the Act, 19 U.S.C. 2395, and § 90.19(a).

[42 FR 32772, June 28, 1977, as amended at 52 FR 23402, June 19, 1987; 72 FR 37103, 37104, July 9, 2007]