cfr/title-29-Labor/subtitle-B-Regulations-Relating-Labor/chapter-IV-Office-LaborManagement-Standards-Department-Labor/subchapter-A-LaborManagement-Standards/part-403-Labor-Organization-Annual-Financial-Reports/section-403.5.md, before:

##### § 403.5 Terminal financial report. #####

(a) Any labor organization required to file a report under the provisions of this part, which during its fiscal year loses its identity as a reporting labor organization through merger, consolidation, or otherwise, shall, within 30 days after such loss, file a terminal financial report with the Office of Labor-Management Standards, on Form LM-2, LM-3, or LM-4, as may be appropriate, signed by the president and treasurer or corresponding principal officers of the labor organization immediately prior to the time of its loss of reporting identity.

(b) Every labor organization which has assumed trusteeship over a subordinate labor organization shall file within 90 days after the termination of such trusteeship on behalf of the subordinate labor organization a terminal financial report with the Office of Labor-Management Standards, on Form LM-2 and in conformance with the requirements of this part.

(c) For purposes of the reports required by paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, the period covered thereby shall be the portion of the labor organization's fiscal year ending on the effective date of its loss of reporting identity, or the portion of the subordinate labor organization's fiscal year ending on the effective date of the termination of trusteeship over such subordinate labor organization, as the case may be.

[28 FR 14383, Dec. 27, 1963, as amended at 50 FR 31309, 31310, Aug. 1, 1985; 62 FR 6092, Feb. 10, 1997; 68 FR 58447, Oct. 9, 2003; 71 FR 57737, Sept. 29, 2006; 73 FR 57449, Oct. 2, 2008; 75 FR 74959, Dec. 1, 2010]

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2020-04-06 issue
Title: 17: Commodity and Securities Exchanges - Sections changed: 16
Title: 19: Customs Duties - Sections changed: 2
Title: 21: Food and Drugs - Sections changed: 2
Title: 24: Housing and Urban Development - Sections changed: 14
Title: 26: Internal Revenue - Sections changed: 10
Title: 29: Labor - Sections changed: 3
Title: 38: Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief - Sections changed: 3
Title: 40: Protection of Environment - Sections changed: 47
Title: 42: Public Health - Sections changed: 36
Title: 50: Wildlife and Fisheries - Sections changed: 2

cfr/title-29-Labor/subtitle-B-Regulations-Relating-Labor/chapter-IV-Office-LaborManagement-Standards-Department-Labor/subchapter-A-LaborManagement-Standards/part-403-Labor-Organization-Annual-Financial-Reports/section-403.5.md, after:

##### § 403.5 Terminal financial report. #####

(a) Any labor organization required to file a report under the provisions of this part, which during its fiscal year loses its identity as a reporting labor organization through merger, consolidation, or otherwise, shall, within 30 days after such loss, file a terminal financial report with the Office of Labor-Management Standards, on Form LM-2, LM-3, or LM-4, as may be appropriate, signed by the president and treasurer or corresponding principal officers of the labor organization immediately prior to the time of its loss of reporting identity.

(b) Every labor organization which has assumed trusteeship over a subordinate labor organization shall file within 90 days after the termination of such trusteeship on behalf of the subordinate labor organization a terminal financial report with the Office of Labor-Management Standards, on Form LM-2 and in conformance with the requirements of this part.

(c) For purposes of the reports required by paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, the period covered thereby shall be the portion of the labor organization's fiscal year ending on the effective date of its loss of reporting identity, or the portion of the subordinate labor organization's fiscal year ending on the effective date of the termination of trusteeship over such subordinate labor organization, as the case may be.

(d) If a labor organization filed or was required to file a report on a trust pursuant to Sec. 403.2(d) and that trust loses its identity during its subsequent fiscal year through merger, consolidation, or otherwise, the labor organization shall, within 30 days after such loss, file a terminal report on Form T-1, with the Office of Labor-Management Standards, signed by the president and treasurer or corresponding principal officers of the labor organization. For purposes of the report required by this paragraph, the period covered thereby shall be the portion of the trust's fiscal year ending on the effective date of the loss of its reporting identity.

[28 FR 14383, Dec. 27, 1963, as amended at 50 FR 31309, 31310, Aug. 1, 1985; 62 FR 6092, Feb. 10, 1997; 68 FR 58447, Oct. 9, 2003; 71 FR 57737, Sept. 29, 2006; 73 FR 57449, Oct. 2, 2008; 75 FR 74959, Dec. 1, 2010; 85 FR 13442, Mar. 6, 2020]
