##### § 655.215 Procedures for filing herding and range livestock applications for temporary employment certification. #####

(a) *Compliance with §§ 655.130-655.132.* Unless otherwise specified in §§ 655.200-655.235, the employer must satisfy the requirements for filing an *H-2A Application for Temporary Employment Certification* with the NPC designated by the OFLC Administrator as required under §§ 655.130-655.132.

(b) *What to file.* An employer must file a completed *H-2A Application for Temporary Employment Certification* (Form ETA-9142A), *Agricultural and Food Processing Clearance Order* (Form ETA-790), and an attachment identifying, with as much geographic specificity as possible for each farmer/rancher, the names, physical locations and estimated start and end dates of need where work will be performed under the job order.

(1) The *H-2A Application for Temporary Employment Certification* and Form ETA-790 may be filed by an individual employer, association, or an H-2ALC, covering multiple areas of intended employment and more than two contiguous States.

(2) The period of need identified on the *H-2A Application for Temporary Employment Certification* and job order for range sheep or goat herding or production occupations must be no more than 364 calendar days. The period of need identified on the *H-2A Application for Temporary Employment Certification* and job order for range herding or production of cattle, horses, or other domestic hooved livestock, except sheep and goats, must be for no more than 10 months.

(3) An association of agricultural employers filing as a joint employer may submit a single Form ETA-790 and master *H-2A Application for Temporary Employment Certification* on behalf of its employer-members located in more than two contiguous States with different start dates of need. Unless modifications to a sheep or goat herding or production of livestock job order are required by the CO or requested by the employer, pursuant to § 655.121(e), the association is not required to re-submit the Form ETA-790 during the calendar year with its H-2A Application for Temporary Employment Certification.