##### 832.006-4 Procedures. #####

(a) Any recommendation from a VA employee through the DSPE to the SPE to reduce or suspend payment to a contractor under FAR 32.006 must address the considerations in FAR 32.006-4(d).

(b) The DSPE shall carry out the responsibilities of the Secretary or designee in FAR 32.006-4(e) to notify the contractor of proposed action under FAR 32.006. The notice of proposed action will be sent to the last known address of the contractor, the contractor's counsel, or agent for service of process, by certified mail, return receipt requested, or any other method that provides signed evidence of receipt. In the case of a business, the notice of proposed action may be sent to any partner, principal, officer, director, owner or co-owner, or joint venture. The contractor will be afforded an opportunity to appear before the DSPE to present information or argument in person or through a representative. The contractor may supplement the oral presentation with written information and argument. The proceedings will be conducted in an informal manner and without the requirement for a transcript. If the DSPE does not receive a reply from the contractor within 30 calendar days, the DSPE will base his or her recommendations on the information available. Any recommendation of the DSPE under paragraph (a) of this section must address the results of this notification and the information, if any, provided by the contractor.

(c) The SPE must provide a copy of each final determination and the supporting documentation to the contractor, the DSPE and the contracting officer. The contracting officer will place a copy of the determination and the supporting documentation in the contract file.