##### § 1.404(e)-1 Contributions on behalf of a self-employed individual to or under a pension, annuity, or profit-sharing plan meeting the requirements of section 401; application of section 404(a) (8), (9), and (10) and section 404 (e) and (f). #####

(a) *In general.* (1) The Self-Employed Individuals Tax Retirement Act of 1962 (76 Stat. 809) permits certain self-employed individuals to be treated as employees for purposes of pension, annuity, and profit-sharing plans included in paragraph (1), (2), or (3) of section 404(a). Therefore, for taxable years of an employer beginning after December 31, 1962, employer contributions to qualified plans on behalf of self-employed individuals are deductible under section 404 subject to the limitations of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.

(2) In the case of contributions to qualified plans on behalf of self-employed individuals, the amount deductible differs from the amount allowed as a deduction. In general, the amount deductible is 10 percent of the earned income derived by the self-employed individual from the trade or business with respect to which the plan is established, or $2,500, whichever is the lesser. This is the amount referred to in section 401 when reference is made to the amounts which may be deducted under section 404 or the amount of contributions deductible under section 404. Thus, this is the amount taken into consideration in determining whether contributions under the plan are discriminatory. The amount allowed as a deduction with respect to contributions on behalf of a self-employed individual is one-half of the amount deductible. The amount allowed as a deduction is relevant only for purposes of determining the amount an employer may deduct from gross income.

(b) *Determination of the amount deductible.* (1) If a plan covers employees, some of whom are self-employed individuals, the determination of the amount deductible is made on the basis of independent consideration of the common-law employees and of the self-employed individuals. See subparagraphs (2) and (3) of this paragraph. For purposes of determining the amount deductible with respect to contributions on behalf of a self-employed individual, such contributions shall be considered to satisfy the conditions of section 162 (relating to trade or business expenses) or 212 (relating to expenses for the production of income), but only to the extent that such contributions do not exceed the earned income of such individual derived from the trade or business with respect to which the plan is established. However, the portion of such contribution, if any, attributable to the purchase of life, accident, health, or other insurance protection shall be considered payment of a personal expense which does not satisfy the requirements of section 162 or 212. See paragraph (f) of this section. For the additional rules applicable where contributions are made by more than one employer on behalf of a self-employed individual, see paragraph (d) of this section.

(2) If contributions are made to a plan included in section 404(a) (1), (2), or (3) on behalf of employees, some of whom are self-employed individuals, the amount deductible with respect to contributions on behalf of the common-law employees covered under the plan shall be determined as if such employees were the only employees for whom contributions and benefits are provided under the plan. Accordingly, for purposes of such determination, the percentage of compensation limitations of section 404(a) (1), (3), and (7) are applicable only with respect to the compensation otherwise paid or accrued during the taxable year by the employer to the common-law employees. Similarly, the costs referred to in section 404(a)(1) (B) and (C) shall be the costs of funding the benefits of the common-law employees. Also, the provisions of section 404(a)(1)(D), (3), and (7), relating to certain carryover deductions, shall be applicable only to amounts contributed, or to the amounts deductible, on behalf of such employees.

(3) If contributions are made to a plan included in section 404(a) (1), (2), or (3) on behalf of individuals some or all of whom are self-employed individuals, the amount deductible in any taxable year with respect to contributions on behalf of such individuals shall be determined as follows:

(i) The provisions of section 404(a) (1), (2), (3), and (7) shall be applied as if such individuals were the only participants for whom contributions and benefits are provided under the plan. Thus, the costs referred to in such provisions shall be the costs of funding the benefits of the self-employed individuals. If such costs are less than an amount equal to the amount determined under subdivision (iii) of this subparagraph, the maximum amount deductible with respect to such individuals shall be the costs of their benefits.

(ii) The provisions of section 404(a)(1)(D), the second and third sentences of section 404(a)(3)(A), and the second sentence of section 404(a)(7), relating to certain carryover deductions, are not applicable to contributions on behalf of self-employed individuals. Contributions on behalf of self-employed individuals are deductible, if at all, only in the taxable year in which the contribution is paid or deemed paid under section 404(a)(6).

(iii) The amount deductible for the taxable year of the employer with respect to contributions on behalf of a self-employed individual shall not exceed the lesser of $2,500 or 10 percent of the earned income derived by such individual for such taxable year from the trade or business with respect to which the plan is established.

(iv) If a self-employed individual receives in any taxable year earned income with respect to which deductions are allowable to two or more employers, the aggregate amounts deductible shall not exceed the lesser of $2,500 or 10 percent of such earned income. See paragraph (d) of this section.

(c) *Special limitation on the amount allowed as a deduction for self-employed individuals.* The amount allowed as a deduction under section 404(a) (1), (2), (3), and (7) in any taxable year with respect to contributions made on behalf of a self-employed individual shall be an amount equal to one-half of the amount deductible with respect to such contributions under paragraph (b)(3) of this section. However, for purposes of section 401, the amount which may be deducted, or the amount deductible, under section 404 with respect to contributions made on behalf of self-employed individuals shall be determined without regard to the special limitation of this paragraph.

(d) *Rules applicable where contributions are made by more than one employer on behalf of a self-employed individual.* (1) Under paragraph (b)(3)(iv) of this section, if a self-employed individual receives in any taxable year earned income with respect to which deductions are allowable to two or more employers, the aggregate amounts deductible shall not exceed the lesser of $2,500 or 10 percent of such earned income. This limitation does not apply to contributions made under a plan on behalf of an employee who is not self-employed in the trade or business with respect to which the plan is established, even though such employee may be covered as a self-employed individual under a plan or plans established by other trades or businesses.

(2) In any case in which the application of subparagraph (1) of this paragraph reduces the amount otherwise deductible, the amount deductible by each employer shall be that amount which bears the same ratio to the aggregate amount deductible with respect to all trades or businesses (as determined in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph) as the earned income derived from that employer bears to the aggregate of the earned income derived from all of the trades or businesses with respect to which plans are established. The amount allowed as a deduction to each employer is one-half of the amount determined (in accordance with the preceding sentence) to be deductible by such employer.

(e) *Partner's distributive share of contributions and deductions.* For purposes of sections 702(a)(8) and 704, a partner's distributive share of contributions on behalf of self-employed individuals under a qualified pension, annuity, or profit-sharing plan is the contribution made on his behalf, and his distributive share of deductions allowed the partnership under section 404 for contributions on behalf of self-employed individuals is that portion of the deduction which is attributable to contributions made on his behalf under the plan. The contribution on behalf of a partner and the deduction with respect thereto must be accounted for separately by such partner, for his taxable year with or within which the partnership's taxable year ends, as an item described in section 702(a)(8).

(f) *Contributions allocable to insurance protection.* For purposes of determining the amount deductible with respect to contributions on behalf of a self-employed individual, amounts allocable to the purchase of life, accident, health, or other insurance protection shall not be taken into account. Such amounts are neither deductible nor considered as contributions for purposes of determining the maximum amount of contributions that may be made on behalf of an owner-employee. The amount of a contribution allocable to insurance shall be an amount equal to a reasonable net premium cost, as determined by the Commissioner, for such amount of insurance for the appropriate period. See paragraph (b)(5) of § 1.72-16.

(g) *Rules applicable to loans.* For purposes of section 404, any amount paid, directly or indirectly, by an owner-employee in repayment of any loan which under section 72(m)(4)(B) was treated as an amount received from a qualified trust or plan shall be treated as a contribution to such trust or under such plan on behalf of such owner-employee.

(h) *Definitions.* For purposes of section 404 and the regulations thereunder -

(1) The term “employee” includes an employee as defined in section 401(c)(1) and paragraph (b) of § 1.401-10, and the term “employer” means the person treated as the employer of such individual under section 401(c)(4);

(2) The term “owner-employee” means an owner-employee as defined in section 401(c)(3) and paragraph (d) of § 1.401-10;

(3) The term “earned income” means earned income as defined in section 401(c)(2) and paragraph (c) of § 1.401-10; and

(4) The term “compensation” when used with respect to an individual who is an employee described in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph shall be considered to be a reference to the earned income of such individual derived from the trade or business with respect to which the plan is established.

(i) *Years to which this section applies.* This section applies to taxable years of employers beginning before January 1, 1974. For taxable years beginning after December 31, 1973, see § 1.404(e)-1A.

[T.D. 6673, 28 FR 10145, Sept. 17, 1963, as amended by T.D. 7636, 44 FR 47056, Aug. 10, 1979]