##### § 1.404(a)-6 Pension and annuity plans; limitations under section 404(a)(1)(C). #####

(a) *Application to a taxable year of the employer which ends with or within a taxable year of the pension trust or annuity plan for which it is exempt under section 501(a) or meets the requirements of section 404(a)(2).* (1) The rules in this paragraph are applicable with respect to the limitation under section 404(a)(1)(C) for taxable years of the employer which end with or within a taxable year of the pension trust for which it is exempt under section 501(a), or, in the case of an annuity plan, during which it meets the requirements of section 404(a)(2). See paragraph (b) of this section for rules relating to the limitation under section 404(a)(1)(C) for other taxable years of the employer.

(2) Subject to the applicable general conditions and limitations (see § 1.404(a)-3), in lieu of amounts deductible under the limitations of section 404(a)(1)(A) and section 404(a)(1)- (B), deductions may be allowed under section 404(a)(1)(C) to the extent of limitations based on normal and past service or supplementary costs of providing benefits under the plan. “Normal cost” for any year is the amount actuarially determined which would be required as a contribution by the employer in such year to maintain the plan if the plan had been in effect from the beginning of service of each then included employee and if such costs for prior years had been paid and all assumptions as to interest, mortality, time of payment, etc., had been fulfilled. Past service or supplementary cost at any time is the amount actuarially determined which would be required at such time to meet all the future benefits provided under the plan which would not be met by future normal costs and employee contributions with respect to the employees covered under the plan at such time.

(3) The limitation under section 404(a)(1)(C) for any taxable year to which this paragraph applies is the sum of normal cost for the year plus an amount not in excess of one-tenth of the past service or supplementary cost as of the date the past service or supplementary credits are provided under the plan. For this purpose, the normal cost may be determined by any generally accepted actuarial method and may be expressed either as (i) the aggregate of level amounts with respect to each employee covered under the plan, (ii) a level percentage of payroll with respect to each employee covered under the plan, or (iii) the aggregate of the single premium or unit costs for the unit credits accruing during the year with respect to each employee covered under the plan, provided, in any case, that the method is reasonable in view of the provisions and coverage of the plan, the funding medium, and other applicable considerations. The limitation may include one-tenth of the past service or supplementary cost as of the date the provisions resulting in such cost were put into effect, but it is subject to adjustments for prior favorable experience. See § 1.404(a)-3. In any case, past service or supplementary costs shall not be included in the limitation for any year in which the amount required to fund fully or to purchase such past service or supplementary credits has been deducted, since no deduction is allowable for any amount (other than the normal cost) which is paid in after such credits are fully funded or purchased.

(b) *Application to a taxable year of the employer which does not end with or within a taxable year of the pension trust or annuity plan for which it is exempt under section 501(a) or meets the requirements of section 404(a)(2).* (1) The rules in this paragraph are applicable with respect to the limitation under section 404(a)(1)(C) for taxable years of the employer which end with or within a taxable year of the pension trust during which it is not exempt under section 501(a), or, in the case of an annuity plan, during which it does not meet the requirements of section 404(a)(2), or which end after the trust or plan has terminated. Since contributions paid in such taxable years of the employer are not deductible under section 404(a) (1) or (2) (except as provided in section 404(a)(6)), the limitation under section 404(a)(1)(C) for such taxable years relates only to the amount of any excess contributions that may be carried over to such taxable years under section 404(a)(1)(D).

(2) Subject to the applicable general conditions and limitations (see § 1.404(a)-3), deductions may be allowed under section 404(a)(1)(C) for taxable years of the employer to which this paragraph applies to the extent of limitations based on past service or supplementary costs of providing benefits under the plan. For definition of the “past service or supplementary cost at any time”, see paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

(3) The limitation under section 404(a)(1)(C) for any taxable year to which this paragraph applies is an amount not in excess of one-tenth of the past service or supplementary cost as of the date the past service or supplementary credits are provided under the plan. The limitation under section 404(a)(1)(C) is subject, however, to adjustments for prior favorable experience. In any case, no amounts are deductible under section 404(a)(1)(C) for any year to which this paragraph applies if the amount required to fund fully or to purchase the past service or supplementary credits has been deducted in prior taxable years of the employer.

[T.D. 6534, 26 FR 515, Jan. 20, 1961]