##### § 1.401(l)-5 Overall permitted disparity limits. #####

(a) *Introduction*—(1) *In general.* The maximum excess allowance and maximum offset allowance limit the disparity that can be provided under a plan for a plan year. The overall permitted disparity rules apply to limit the disparity provided for a plan year if an employee benefits under more than one plan maintained by the employer (the “annual overall permitted disparity limit”) and to limit the disparity provided for an employee's total years of service, either in a single plan or in more than one plan of the employer (the “cumulative overall permitted disparity limit”). The overall permitted disparity rules take into account the disparity provided under a section 401(l) plan and the permitted disparity imputed under a plan that satisfies section 401(a)(4) by relying on § 1.401(a)(4)-7. A plan that is not a section 401(l) plan is generally deemed to impute permitted disparity under § 1.401(a)(4)-7 unless established otherwise. Paragraph (b) of this section provides rules on the annual overall permitted disparity limit. Paragraph (c) of this section provides rules on the cumulative overall permitted disparity limit.

(2) *Plan requirements.* In order to satisfy section 401(l), a plan must provide that the overall permitted disparity limits may not be exceeded and must specify how employer-provided contributions or benefits under the plan are adjusted, if necessary, to satisfy the overall permitted disparity limits. Any adjustments made to satisfy the overall permitted disparity limits must be made in a uniform manner for all employees.

(3) *Plans taken into account.* For purposes of this section, all plans of the employer are taken into account. In addition, all plans of any other employer are taken into account for all periods of service with the other employer for which the employee receives credit for purposes of benefit accrual under any plan of the current employer.

(b) *Annual overall permitted disparity limit*—(1) *In general.* If, in the plan year, an employee benefits under more than one plan, the annual overall permitted disparity limit is satisfied only if the employee's total annual disparity fraction, as defined in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, does not exceed one. Paragraphs (b)(3) through (b)(8) of this section explain the determination of an employee's annual disparity fractions. Paragraph (b)(9) of this section provides examples.

(2) *Total annual disparity fraction.* An employee's total annual disparity fraction is the sum of the employee's annual disparity fractions, as defined in paragraphs (b)(3) through (b)(7) of this section. An employee's total annual disparity fraction is determined as of the end of the current plan year, based on the employee's annual disparity fractions under all plans with plan years ending in the current plan year.

(3) *Annual defined contribution plan disparity fraction.* For a plan year, the annual defined contribution plan disparity fraction for an employee benefiting under a defined contribution plan that is a section 401(l) plan is a fraction—

(i) The numerator of which is the disparity provided under the plan for the plan year, and

(ii) The denominator of which is the maximum excess allowance under § 1.401(l)-2(b)(2) for the plan year.

(4) *Annual defined benefit excess plan disparity fraction.* For a plan year, the annual defined benefit excess plan disparity fraction for an employee benefiting under a defined benefit excess plan that is a section 401(l) plan is a fraction—

(i) The numerator of which is the disparity provided under the plan for the plan year, and

(ii) The denominator of which is the maximum excess allowance under § 1.401(l)-3(b)(2) for the plan year.

(5) *Annual offset plan disparity fraction*—(i) *In general.* For a plan year, the annual offset plan disparity fraction for an employee benefiting under an offset plan that is a section 401(l) plan is a fraction—

(A) The numerator of which is the disparity provided under the plan for the plan year; and

(B) The denominator of which is the maximum offset allowance under § 1.401(l)-3(b)(3) for the plan year.

(ii) *PIA offset plans.* In the case of an offset plan that applies an offset of a specified percentage of the employee's PIA, as permitted under § 1.401(l)-3(c)(2)(ix), the numerator of the annual offset plan disparity fraction is the offset percentage used in the section 401(l) overlay under the plan.

(6) *Annual imputed disparity fraction.* For a plan year, the annual imputed disparity fraction for an employee benefiting under a plan that imputes permitted disparity with respect to the employee under § 1.401(a)(4)-7 is one.

(7) *Annual nondisparate fraction.* For a plan year, the annual nondisparate fraction for an employee benefiting under a plan that neither is a section 401(l) plan nor imputes permitted disparity under § 1.401(a)(4)-7 is zero.

(8) *Determination of fraction*—(i) *General rule.* A separate annual disparity fraction is generally determined for each plan under which the employee benefits. Thus, for example, if two plans are aggregated and treated as a single plan for purposes of section 401(a)(4), a single annual disparity fraction applies to the aggregated plan.

(ii) *Multiple formulas.* If a plan provides an allocation or benefit equal to the sum of two or more formulas, each formula is considered a separate plan for purposes of this section. If a plan provides an allocation or benefit equal to the greater of two or more formulas, an annual disparity fraction is calculated for the employee under each formula and the largest of the fractions is the employee's annual disparity fraction under the plan.

(iii) *Offset arrangements*—(A) *In general.* If an employee benefits under two plans taken into account under paragraph (a)(3) of this section as described in paragraph (b)(8)(iii)(B) or (C) of this section, the employee's annual disparity fraction under both plans is the larger of the annual disparity fractions calculated separately under each plan.

(B) *Defined benefit plans.* The employee's employer-provided accrued benefit under a defined benefit plan is offset by the employee's total employer-provided accrued benefit under another defined benefit plan or by the actuarial equivalent (as defined in § 1.401(a)(4)-12) of the employee's total account balance under a defined contribution plan that is attributable to employer contributions.

(C) *Defined contribution plans.* The amount allocated to the employee's account under a defined contribution plan is offset by the total amount allocated to the employee's account under another defined contribution plan.

(iv) *Applicable percentages.* The disparity provided under a plan is determined on the base and excess percentages under an excess plan and the offset percentage under an offset plan, regardless of whether the employee's plan year or average annual compensation exceeds the integration or offset level under the plan.

(v) *Fractional accrual plans.* If a section 401(l) plan determines each employee's accrued benefit under the fractional accrual method of section 411(b)(1)(C), the numerator of an employee's annual disparity fraction is based on the disparity provided in the benefit accrued for the employee for the plan year.

(9) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate this paragraph (b). Except as otherwise provided, each plan is a section 401(l) plan.

Example 1.(a) Employee A benefits for the plan year under a defined contribution excess plan, Plan X, and a defined benefit excess plan, Plan Y, of the employer. Plans X and Y have the same plan year. Employee A benefits under no other plan of the employer for the plan year of any other plan ending in the plan year of Plans X and Y. Plan X provides a base contribution percentage of 5 percent and an excess contribution percentage of 7 percent, thus providing Employee A with disparity of 2 percent for the plan year. The maximum excess allowance for the plan year under Plan X is 5 percent. Plan Y provides a base benefit percentage of 1 percent and an excess benefit percentage of 1.35 percent, thus providing Employee A with disparity of 0.35 percent for the plan year. The maximum excess allowance for the plan year under Plan Y is 0.75 percent.

(b) Employee A's annual defined contribution plan disparity fraction under Plan X for the plan year is 0.4 (2 percent divided by 5 percent). Employee A's annual defined benefit excess plan disparity fraction under Plan Y for the plan year is 0.47 (0.35 percent divided by 0.75 percent). Employee A's total annual disparity fraction is the sum of 0.4 and 0.47 or 0.87. Because Employee A's total annual disparity fraction does not exceed one, the plans satisfy the annual overall permitted disparity limit with respect to Employee A for the plan year.

Example 2.(a) The facts are the same as in *Example 1,* except that Plan Y is a defined contribution plan, rather than a defined benefit plan. Plan X and Plan Y cover the same employees and are identical in their terms except for the base and excess contribution percentages provided under the plans. Plan Y provides a base contribution percentage of 3 percent and an excess contribution percentage of 6 percent, thus providing Employee A with disparity of 3 percent for the plan year. The maximum excess allowance for the plan year under Plan Y is 3 percent.

(b) Employee A's annual defined contribution plan disparity fraction under Plan X for the plan year is 0.4 (2 percent divided by 5 percent). Employee A's annual defined contribution plan disparity fraction under Plan Y for the plan year is 1 (3 percent divided by 3 percent). Because Employee A's total annual disparity fraction (the sum of 0.4 and 1 or 1.4) exceeds one, the plans do not satisfy the annual overall permitted disparity requirements with respect to Employee A for the plan year.

(c) Plan X and Plan Y are aggregated for purposes of section 401(a)(4) and form a single section 401(l) plan. Under the plan, the base contribution percentage is 8 percent (5 percent plus 3 percent), and the excess contribution percentage is 13 percent (7 percent plus 6 percent). A single annual defined contribution plan disparity fraction is determined for Employee A for the plan year, the numerator of which is the disparity of 5 percent provided under the plan (13 percent minus 8 percent), and the denominator of which is 5.7 percent, the maximum excess allowance that applies to the plan. Because Employee A's only annual disparity fraction of 0.88 (5 percent divided by 5.7 percent) does not exceed one, Employee A's total annual disparity fraction also does not exceed one. The plan thus satisfies the annual overall permitted disparity limit with respect to Employee A for the plan year.

Example 3.Assume the same facts as in *Example 2,* except that Plan X and Plan Y use different integration levels. Therefore, when Plan X and Plan Y are aggregated to form a single plan for purposes of section 401(a)(4), the single plan does not satisfy section 401(l). In applying the general test of § 1.401(a)(4)-2(c), the plan imputes disparity under § 1.401(a)(4)-7. Employee A's only annual disparity fraction is the annual imputed disparity fraction of one. Employee A's total annual disparity fraction is also one, and the plan satisfies the annual overall permitted disparity limit with respect to Employee A for the plan year.Example 4.(a) Employee B participates in two plans: Plan M, which is a section 401(l) plan, and Plan N, which is subject to the general test under § 1.401(a)(4)-3(c). Plan M provides that the disparity provided an employee for the plan year will be reduced to the extent necessary to satisfy the annual overall permitted disparity limits. The employer wishes to impute permitted disparity under § 1.401(a)(4)-7 in order for Plan N to satisfy section 401(a)(4). Employee B's imputed disparity fraction under Plan N is therefore one, and Plan M provides no disparity for Employee B for the plan year. As a result, Plan M provides disparity that is neither uniform nor deemed uniform under § 1.401(l)-3(c); Plan M therefore does not satisfy section 401(l).

(b) Assume instead that Plan M provides that the annual overall permitted disparity limits must be satisfied without reducing the disparity provided for an employee under Plan M, thus requiring a reduction in the employee's annual disparity fraction under another plan. In that case, the disparity provided under Plan M would be uniform for the plan year and Plan M would continue to satisfy section 401(l). However, imputation of permitted disparity with respect to Employee B would not be allowed under Plan N.

(c) *Cumulative permitted disparity limit*—(1) *In general*—(i) *Employees who benefit under defined benefit plans.* In the case of an employee who has benefited under one or more defined benefit plans for a plan year described in paragraph (c)(1)(v) of this section, the cumulative permitted disparity limit is satisfied if the employee's cumulative disparity fraction, as defined in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, does not exceed 35.

(ii) *Employees who do not benefit under defined benefit plans.* In the case of an employee who has not benefited under a defined benefit plan for any plan year described in paragraph (c)(1)(v) of this section, the cumulative permitted disparity limit is satisfied.

(iii) *Certain plan years disregarded.* For purposes of this paragraph (c), an employee is not treated as benefiting under a defined benefit plan for a plan year described in paragraph (c)(1)(v) of this section if the employer can establish that for that plan year the defined benefit plan was not a section 401(l) plan and did not impute permitted disparity under § 1.401(a)(4)-7.

(iv) *Determination of type of plan.* For purposes of this paragraph (c), a target benefit plan that relies on the special rule of § 1.401(a)(4)-8(b)(3) to satisfy section 401(a)(4) and a DB/DC plan within the meaning of § 1.401(a)(4)-9(a) are treated as defined benefit plans. Similarly, a cash balance plan that relies on the special rule of § 1.401(a)(4)-8(c)(3) to satisfy section 401(a)(4) is treated as a defined contribution plan.

(v) *Applicable plan years.* In applying paragraphs (c)(1) (i), (ii), and (iii) of this section, for purposes of determining whether an employee benefits under a defined benefit plan, the applicable plan years are all plan years that begin on or after the regulatory effective date, as set forth in § 1.401(l)-6(b), or, in the case of governmental plans, as set forth in § 1.401(a)(4)-13(b).

(vi) *Transition rule for defined contribution plans.* A defined contribution plan is deemed to satisfy the cumulative permitted disparity limit for the first plan year to which these regulations apply, as set forth in § 1.401(l)-6(b), or, in the case of governmental plans, as set forth in § 1.401(a)(4)-13(b).

(2) *Cumulative disparity fraction.* An employee's cumulative disparity fraction is the sum of the employee's total annual disparity fractions, as defined in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, attributable to the employee's total years of service under all plans.

(3) *Determination of total annual disparity fractions for prior years.* For each of the employee's years of service credited as of the end of the last plan year beginning before January 1, 1989, not to exceed 35, under all plans as of that time that are taken into account under paragraph (a)(3) of this section (whether or not terminated), the employee's total annual disparity fraction is one. Therefore, if, before the first plan year beginning on or after January 1, 1989, an employee never participated in or benefited under any plan taken into account under paragraph (a)(3) of this section, the employee's total annual disparity fractions are determined without regard to this paragraph (c)(3). An employer may apply the rule in this paragraph (c)(3) with respect to all employees, using a year (including the current year) that is chosen by the employer and is later than 1989. Thus, for example, in lieu of calculating annual disparity fractions for all plan years, the employer may assume that the full disparity limit has been used in each prior plan year for which an employee has been credited with a year of service.

(4) *Special rules for greater of formulas and offset arrangements*—(i) *Greater of formulas*—(A) *In general.* A defined benefit plan that is a section 401(l) plan and that provides a benefit equal to the greater of the benefits determined under two or more formulas is deemed to satisfy the cumulative permitted disparity limit with respect to an employee if each of the requirements in paragraphs (c)(4)(i) (B) and (C) of this section is satisfied. For this purpose, a plan that uses a fresh-start formula that determines the accrued benefit as the greater of two amounts under § 1.401(a)(4)-13(c)(4) (ii) or (iii) provides a benefit equal to the greater of the benefits determined under two or more formulas.

(B) *Separate satisfaction by formulas.* Each formula under the plan would satisfy the cumulative permitted disparity limit if it were the only formula under the plan. In the case of a current formula that applies to the employee's total years of service (as, for example, under § 1.401(a)(4)-13(c)(4) (ii)(B) or (iii)(B)), for purposes of determining whether that formula would satisfy the cumulative permitted disparity limit if it were the only formula under the plan, the special rule for prior years under paragraph (c)(3) of this section may be disregarded.

(C) *Single plan.* The employee has never benefited under another plan taken into account under paragraph (a)(3) of this section that is a section 401(l) plan or that satisfies section 401(a)(4) by relying on § 1.401(a)(4)-7. For this purpose, if the benefit under the plan is offset in an offset arrangement described in paragraph (b)(8)(iii)(B) of this section, the other plan is disregarded. In addition, a plan does not fail the requirements of this paragraph (c)(4)(i)(C) merely because the employee benefits under another defined benefit plan, provided that—

(*1*) With respect to each benefit formula under the plan, no years of service taken into account under that benefit formula are taken into account under a benefit formula of the other plan; and

(*2*) Paragraph (c)(4)(i)(B) of this section would be satisfied if the plans were treated as a single plan that provided a benefit equal to the greater of the benefits provided under two or more formulas. For this purpose, a formula consists of the sum of a formula for the years of service taken into account under one plan and a formula for the years of service taken into account under the other plan. Thus, each possible combination of the formulas under the plans must satisfy paragraph (c)(4)(i)(B) of this section.

(ii) *Offset arrangements*—(A) *In general.* If a defined benefit plan is a section 401(l) plan and the benefit under the plan (the gross benefit plan) is offset by the benefit under another plan (the offsetting plan) in an offset arrangement described in paragraph (b)(8)(iii)(B) of this section, the gross benefit plan is deemed to satisfy the cumulative permitted disparity limit with respect to an employee if each of the requirements in paragraphs (c)(4)(ii) (B) and (C) of this section is satisfied.

(B) *Separate satisfaction by plans.* This requirement is satisfied if the gross benefit plan would satisfy the cumulative disparity limit if no offset applied, and the offsetting plan satisfies the cumulative permitted disparity limit, not taking into account the gross benefit plan.

(C) *No other plan.* Except for the plans in the offset arrangement, the employee has never benefited under another plan taken into account under paragraph (a)(3) of this section that is a section 401(l) plan or that satisfies section 401(a)(4) by relying on § 1.401(a)(4)-7. An offset arrangement does not fail the requirements of this paragraph (c)(4)(ii)(C) merely because the employee benefits under another defined benefit plan, provided no years of service taken into account under a benefit formula of any plan in the offset arrangement are also taken into account under a benefit formula of the other plan.

(5) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate this paragraph (c). In each example the plan is noncontributory and, unless provided otherwise, is the only plan ever maintained by the employer. Each plan uses a normal retirement age of 65 and contains no provision that would require a reduction in the 0.75-percent factor under § 1.401(l)-3(b)(2) or (3). Each example discusses the benefit formula applicable to an employee who has a social security retirement age of 65.

Example 1.Plan M is a defined benefit excess plan that provides a normal retirement benefit of 1 percent of average annual compensation up to covered compensation, plus 1.75 percent of average annual compensation above covered compensation, for each year of service without limit. The disparity provided under the plan for the plan year is 0.75 percent, the excess benefit percentage of 1.75 percent minus the base benefit percentage of 1 percent. The maximum excess allowance for the plan year is 0.75 percent. Thus, each employee's annual defined benefit excess plan disparity fraction under the plan for each plan year is one. Because the plan contains no limit on the years of service taken into account under the plan, the sum of the total annual disparity fractions for a potential employee with more than 35 years of service will exceed 35. In addition, the plan does not provide that the overall permitted disparity limits may not be exceeded as required by paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The plan therefore does not satisfy the cumulative permitted disparity limit of this paragraph (c).Example 2.Plan N is an offset plan that provides a normal retirement benefit of 2 percent of average annual compensation, minus 0.75 percent of final average compensation up to the lesser of covered compensation and average annual compensation, for each year of service up to 35. The disparity provided under the plan for the plan year is 0.75 percent, the offset percentage. The maximum offset allowance for the plan year is 0.75 percent. Thus, each employee's annual offset plan disparity fraction under the plan for each plan year is one. Because the plan limits the years of service taken into account under the plan to 35, the sum of the total annual disparity fractions for an employee cannot exceed 35. The plan therefore satisfies the cumulative permitted disparity limit of this paragraph (c).Example 3.Plan O is a defined benefit excess plan that provides a normal retirement benefit of 0.75 percent of average annual compensation up to covered compensation, plus 1.25 percent of average annual compensation above covered compensation, for each year of service up to 45. The disparity provided under the plan for the plan year is 0.5 percent, the excess benefit percentage of 1.25 percent minus the base benefit percentage of 0.75 percent. The maximum excess allowance for the plan year is 0.75 percent. Thus, each employee's annual defined benefit excess plan disparity fraction under the plan for each plan year is 0.67 (0.5 percent divided by 0.75 percent). Because the plan limits the years of service taken into account under the plan to 45, the sum of the total annual disparity fractions for an employee cannot exceed 30 (0.67 × 45). The plan therefore satisfies the cumulative permitted disparity limit of this paragraph (c).Example 4.(a) Plan P is a defined contribution excess plan. Plan P provides a base contribution percentage of 6 percent and an excess contribution percentage of 11.7 percent, thus providing disparity of 5.7 percent for the plan year. Because the maximum excess allowance for each plan year under Plan P is 5.7 percent, each employee's annual defined contribution plan disparity fraction under Plan P for each plan year is one. Plan Q is a defined benefit excess plan maintained by the same employer. Plan Q provides a base benefit percentage of 1 percent and an excess benefit percentage of 1.75 percent for each year of service up to 35, thus providing disparity of 0.75 percent for the plan year. Because the maximum excess allowance for each plan year under Plan Q is 0.75 percent, each employee's annual defined benefit excess plan disparity fraction under Plan Q for each plan year is one.

(b) Employee A benefits under Plan P for the 1980 through the 1994 plan years. The sum of Employee A's total annual disparity fractions under Plan P is 15. (Under paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section, Employee A's annual disparity fraction for each year of service as of the end of the 1988 plan year is one.) As of the 1995 plan year, Employee A no longer benefits under Plan P and begins to benefit under Plan Q for the first time. In order to satisfy the cumulative permitted disparity limit of this paragraph (c), Plan Q must provide that no disparity will be provided if the sum of an employee's total annual disparity fractions reaches 35, taking into account the employee's annual defined contribution plan disparity fractions under Plan P as well as the employee's annual defined benefit excess plan disparity fractions under Plan Q. Thus, after Employee A has benefited under Plan Q for 20 years, Plan Q may not provide any disparity in additional benefits accrued for Employee A.

Example 5.(a) Plan O is a noncontributory defined benefit excess plan. Plan O provides an employee whose social security retirement age is 65 with the greater of the benefits determined under two formulas. The first formula provides a benefit of 1 percent of average annual compensation up to covered compensation, plus 1.75 percent of average annual compensation above covered compensation, for each year of service up to 35. The second formula provides a benefit of 1 percent of average annual compensation up to covered compensation, plus 1.6 percent of average annual compensation above covered compensation, for each year of service up to 40.

(b) Under paragraph (b)(4) of this section, an employee's annual defined benefit excess plan fraction for each of the 35 years under the first formula is 0.75/0.75 or one, and an employee's annual defined benefit excess plan fraction for each of the 40 years under the second formula is 0.6/0.75 or 0.8. Under paragraph (b)(8)(ii) of this section, an employee's annual defined benefit excess plan fraction (and total annual disparity fraction because the employee benefits only under Plan O) for the plan year is the larger fraction under the two formulas or one. Therefore, after 35 years, the employee has a cumulative disparity fraction of 35. The disparity provided under the second formula for years of service after 35 thus exceeds the cumulative permitted disparity limit unless the plan qualifies for the special rule in paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section.

(c) Assume the condition in paragraph (c)(4)(i)(C) of this section is satisfied because no employee has benefited under another plan taken into account under paragraph (a)(3) of this section. In addition, the largest cumulative disparity fraction possible under the first formula is 35 times one or 35, and the largest cumulative disparity fraction possible under the second formula is 40 times 0.8 or 32. Thus, the requirement of paragraph (c)(4)(i)(B) of this section is also satisfied because each formula would satisfy the cumulative permitted disparity limit if it were the only formula under the plan. Under paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section, the plan is deemed to satisfy the cumulative permitted disparity limit with respect to an employee whose social security retirement age is 65.

(d) *Additional rules.* The Commissioner may prescribe additional rules under this section as the Commissioner considers appropriate. Additional rules may include (without being limited to) rules for computing the fractions described in this section with respect to terminated plans, rules for applying the overall permitted disparity limits to employees who benefit under plans maintained by railroad employers, and rules for determining which plans do not satisfy section 401(l) if the overall permitted disparity limits are exceeded.

[T.D. 8359, 56 FR 47634, Sept. 19, 1991; 57 FR 10819, 10952, Mar. 31, 1992, as amended by T.D. 8486, 58 FR 46833, Sept. 3, 1993]