cfr/title-50-Wildlife-Fisheries/chapter-I-United-States-Fish-Wildlife-Service-Department-Interior/subchapter-F-Financial-Assistance-Wildlife-Sport-Fish-Restoration-Program/part-80-Administrative-Requirements-PittmanRobertson-Wildlife-Restoration-DingellJohnson-Sport-Fish-Restoration-Acts/subpart-L-Information-Collection/section-80.160.md, before:

##### § 80.160 What are the information collection requirements of this part? #####

Link to an amendment published at 84 FR 44788, August 27, 2019.

(a) This part requires each State fish and wildlife agency to provide the following information to the Service. The State agency must:

(1) Certify the number of people who have paid licenses to hunt and the number of people who have paid licenses to fish in a State during the State-specified certification period (OMB control number 1018-0007).

(2) Provide information for a grant application on a Governmentwide standard form (OMB control number 4040-0002).

(3) Certify on a Governmentwide standard form that it:

(i) Has the authority to apply for the grant;

(ii) Has the capability to complete the project; and

(iii) Will comply with the laws, regulations, and policies applicable to nonconstruction projects, construction projects, or both (OMB control numbers 4040-0007 and 4040-0009).

(4) Provide a project statement that describes the need, purpose and objectives, results or benefits expected, approach, geographic location, explanation of costs, and other information that demonstrates that the project is eligible under the Acts and meets the requirements of the Federal Cost Principles and the laws, regulations, and policies applicable to the grant program (OMB control number 1018-0109).

(5) Change or update information provided to the Service in a previously approved application (OMB control number 1018-0109).

(6) Report on a Governmentwide standard form on the status of Federal grant funds and any program income earned (OMB control number 0348-0061).

(7) Report as a grantee on progress in completing the grant-funded project (OMB control number 1018-0109).

(b) The authorizations for information collection under this part are in the Acts and in 43 CFR part 12, subpart C, “Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments.”

(c) Send comments on the information collection requirements to the Service's Information Collection Clearance Officer at the address provided at 50 CFR 2.1(b).

[76 FR 46156, Aug. 1, 2011, as amended at 79 FR 43967, July 29, 2014]

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2019-09-26 issue
Title: 7: Agriculture - Sections changed: 4
Title: 15: Commerce and Foreign Trade - Sections changed: 11
Title: 17: Commodity and Securities Exchanges - Sections changed: 8
Title: 48: Federal Acquisition Regulations System - Sections changed: 9
Title: 29: Labor - Sections changed: 2
Title: 40: Protection of Environment - Sections changed: 73
Title: 47: Telecommunication - Sections changed: 11
Title: 50: Wildlife and Fisheries - Sections changed: 31

cfr/title-50-Wildlife-Fisheries/chapter-I-United-States-Fish-Wildlife-Service-Department-Interior/subchapter-F-Financial-Assistance-Wildlife-Sport-Fish-Restoration-Program/part-80-Administrative-Requirements-PittmanRobertson-Wildlife-Restoration-DingellJohnson-Sport-Fish-Restoration-Acts/subpart-L-Information-Collection/section-80.160.md, after:

##### § 80.160 What are the information collection requirements of this part? #####

(a) This part requires each State fish and wildlife agency to provide the following information to the Service. The State agency must:

(1) Certify the number of people who have paid licenses to hunt and the number of people who have paid licenses to fish in a State during the State-specified certification period (OMB control number 1018-0007).

(2) Provide information for a grant application on a Governmentwide standard form (OMB control number 4040-0002).

(3) Certify on a Governmentwide standard form that it:

(i) Has the authority to apply for the grant;

(ii) Has the capability to complete the project; and

(iii) Will comply with the laws, regulations, and policies applicable to nonconstruction projects, construction projects, or both (OMB control numbers 4040-0007 and 4040-0009).

(4) Provide a project statement that describes the need, purpose and objectives, results or benefits expected, approach, geographic location, explanation of costs, and other information that demonstrates that the project is eligible under the Acts and meets the requirements of the Federal Cost Principles and the laws, regulations, and policies applicable to the grant program (OMB Control Number 1018-0100).

(5) Change or update information provided to the Service in a previously approved application (OMB Control Number 1018-0100).

(6) Report on a Governmentwide standard form on the status of Federal grant funds and any program income earned (OMB control number 0348-0061).

(7) Report as a grantee on progress in completing the grant-funded project (OMB Control Number 1018-0100).

(b) The authorizations for information collection under this part are in the Acts and in 2 CFR part 200, “Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards.”

(c) Send comments on the information collection requirements to: U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Information Collection Clearance Officer, 5275 Leesburg Pike, MS: BPHC, Falls Church, Virginia 22041-3803.

[76 FR 46156, Aug. 1, 2011, as amended at 79 FR 43967, July 29, 2014, 84 FR 44788, Aug. 27, 2019]
