##### ยง 644.445 Procedure for termination of leases. #####

When leased premises are no longer required for use by the Government, a notice of termination will be given to the lessor in accordance with the terms of the lease, effective as of the date of vacation. The termination notice will be served sufficiently in advance to allow time for compliance by the Government with terms of leases providing for removal of improvements and restoration of premises. Where a lease does not contain provision for continuing renewal without notice and will automatically expire, the Government is not required to give notice when it intends to surrender the premises at the expiration of the lease. However, the lessor should be informed, as far in advance as possible, of the Department's intention to vacate, in order that he may plan for a new tenant for other use of the premises. Where a lease provides for a continuing renewal without notice, the DE will ascertain in advance of the beginning of each fiscal year whether the using service has need during the next fiscal year for the premises. When the premises are no longer required, a notice of termination will be served in accordance with the terms of the lease. In the event the lease does not provide for termination by the Government, but the lessor will consent to termination, either in its entirety or partially, a supplemental agreement should be entered into to terminate or amend the lease as of the date the premises will be vacated, Government improvements removed, and restoration completed.

(a) *Forms of Notice of Termination.* Where leases provide for restoration, Notice of Cancellation (Restoration) will be prepared in sextuplet in accordance with Figure 11-11 in ER 405-1-12. Notice of Cancellation, Figure 11-12 in ER 405-1-12, will be used for leases which do not provide for restoration or for leases where written notice requiring restoration has been submitted by the lessor prior to termination. Notice of termination will be prepared on the letterhead of the DE concerned, who will assign his own form-letter number.

(b) *Manner of serving Notice of Cancellation.* The Notice of Termination must conform to requirements of state law, and will, whenever possible, be served personally upon the lessor. In some states, to be legally effective personal service is mandatory, unless expressly waived. The lessor will be requested to execute the acknowledgment of receipt of notice on the form. Where the service is effected by registered or certified mail, a return receipt will be requested and a sufficient number of days (in addition to the stipulated period of notice) will be allowed for transmission and receipt of notice. The return receipt properly signed will be evidence that full notice required by the lease has been given. Should the owner refuse or fail to acknowledge receipt of the notice, the officer serving the notice will so certify thereon, giving the date and method of service. In the case of an absentee lessor, where time will not permit use of certified or registered mail for effecting service, notice will be given by telegram to be delivered, not telephoned, to the addressee. In the case of notice by personal service, any available Army facility or personnel in the lessor's locality may be used.

(c) *Distribution of Notice of Termination.* The original notice of termination will be delivered to the lessor; one copy to the finance and accounting officer who pays the rental; one copy to the using service; and one copy to the DE office files.