##### ยง 644.447 Joint survey of premises. #####

(a) *When required.* As soon as practical after restoration is requested by the lessor, a terminal condition report to reflect the condition of the leased property as of the termination of the lease, and a terminal survey to determine the extent of restoration required, if any, will be prepared. The lessor will be invited to have his estimators accompany the survey party. The lessor's estimates of restoration costs should be obtained promptly, and included in the terminal survey for purposes of comparison in accordance with paragraph (c) of ยง 644.454. Survey and condition reports will not be limited to items for which the lessor specifically requests restoration, but will include all items which the DE determines should be restored in order to fulfill the Government's obligation under the lease.

(b) *Contents.* The report will show, in detail, the work items necessary to place the premises in as good a condition as they were at the time they were taken over by the Government, as disclosed by the survey and condition report made at that time, reasonable and ordinary wear and tear, damages by the elements, or circumstances over which the Government has no control, excepted.

(c) *Housing leases.* The tenant of leased housing is personally responsible for damage to the property, beyond reasonable and ordinary wear and tear, resulting from his acts, the acts of members of his family, his invitees and licensees. Restoration of leased housing therefor should be coordinated with the using service to minimize payments for repairs which are the obligation of the Government's tenant.