##### § 644.464 Negotiating stipulation where proposed settlement not acceptable. #####

Should the court overrule the motion for abandonment, or should it appear that claims for damages will be interposed by the property owner, the responsible DE and the Department of Justice representative will negotiate with the owner for the purpose of obtaining his consent to the abandonment of the condemnation action. The Government will agree to pay the owner a sum representing the rental value of the premises for the period of occupancy by the Government, plus the cost of restoration as determined under §§ 644.452 and 644.453. Such estimate will include the value of personal property, buildings, crops, and other property damaged, destroyed or lost by the Government. DAEN-REM upon recommendation of the DE will request the amendment of the proceeding to include the taking of any property for which compensation is to be paid. The same criteria for settlement with lessors as under a negotiated lease will govern. In the event the landowner will not agree to settle, his best offer will be submitted to DAEN-REM, with the DE's recommendation, for consideration. If a tentative settlement is reached, the terms will be included in a stipulation to be filed in the condemnation proceedings, after approval by DAEN-REM and the Department of Justice, which stipulation will specifically provide:

(a) That the property owner releases and relinquishes all claims of any nature whatsoever which have arisen, or may arise, out of the Government's occupancy of the property; and

(b) That the owner consents to the abandonment and dismissal of the condemnation proceedings. Where the settlement amount is to be paid directly to the owner by the DE in lieu of deposit in the proceedings, the stipulation will so provide.