##### § 1.401(e)-4 Contributions for premiums on annuity, etc., contracts and transitional rule for certain excess contributions. #####

(a) *In general.* The provisions of this section prescribe the rules specified in section 401(e) relating to certain contributions made under a qualified pension, annuity, or profit-sharing plan on behalf of a self-employed individual who is an owner-employee (as defined in section 401(c)(3) and the regulations thereunder) in taxable years of the employer beginning after December 31, 1975. In addition, such plans are also subject to the limitations on contributions and benefits under section 415 for years beginning after December 31, 1975. However, the defined contribution compensation limitation described in section 415(c)(1)(B) will not apply to any contribution described in this section provided that the requirements specified in section 415(c)(7) and § 1.415-6(h) are satisfied. Solely for the purpose of applying section 4972(b) (relating to excise tax on excess contributions for self-employed individuals) to other contributions made by an owner-employee as an employee, the amount of any employer contribution which is not deductible under section 404 for the employer's taxable year but which is described in section 401(e) and this section shall be taken into account as a contribution made by such owner-employee as an employee during the taxable year of his employer in which such contribution is made.

(b) *Contributions described in section 401(e)* - (1) An employer contribution on behalf of an owner-employee is described in section 401(e), if -

(i) Under the provisions of the plan, the contribution is expressly required to be applied (either directly or through a trustee) to pay the premiums or other consideration for one or more annuity, endowment, or life insurance contracts on the life of the owner-employee.

(ii) The employer contributions so applied meet the requirements of subparagraphs (2) through (5) of this paragraph.

(iii) The amount of the contribution exceeds the amount deductible under section 404 with respect to contributions made by the employer on behalf of the owner-employee under the plan, and

(iv) The total employer contributions required to be applied annually to pay premiums on behalf of any owner-employee for contracts described in this paragraph do not exceed $7,500. For purposes of computing such $7,500 limit, the total employer contributions include amounts which are allocable to the purchase of life, accident, health, or other insurance.

(2)(i) The employer contributions must be paid under a plan which satisfies all the requirements for qualification. Accordingly, for example, contributions can be paid under the plan for life insurance protection only to the extent otherwise permitted under sections 401 through 404 and the regulations thereunder. However, certain of the requirements for qualification are modified with respect to a plan described in this paragraph (see section 401(a)(10)(A)(ii) and (d)(5)).

(ii) A plan described in this paragraph is not disqualified merely because a contribution is made on behalf of an owner-employee by his employer during a taxable year of the employer for which the owner-employee has no earned income. On the other hand, a plan will fail to qualify if a contribution is made on behalf of an owner-employee which results in the discrimination prohibited by section 401(a)(4) as modified by section 401(a)(10)(A)(ii).

(3) The employer contributions must be applied to pay premiums or other consideration for a contract issued on the life of the owner-employee. For purposes of this subparagraph, a contract is not issued on the life of an owner-employee unless all the proceeds which are, or may become, payable under the contract are payable directly, or through a trustee of a trust described in section 401(a) and exempt from tax under section 501(a), to the owner-employee or to the beneficiary named in the contract or under the plan. For example, a nontransferable face-amount certificate described in section 401(g) and the regulations thereunder is considered an annuity on the life of the owner-employee if the proceeds of such contract are payable only to the owner-employee or his beneficiary.

(4)(i) For any taxable year of the employer, the amount of contributions by the employer on behalf of the owner-employee which is applied to pay premiums under the contracts described in this paragraph must not exceed the average of the amounts deductible under section 404 by such employer on behalf of such owner-employee for the most recent three taxable years of the employer which are described in the succeeding sentence. The three employer taxable years described in the preceding sentence must be years, ending prior to the date the latest contract was entered into or modified to provide additional, benefits, in which the owner-employee derived earned income from the trade or business with respect to which the plan is established. However, if such owner-employee has not derived earned income for at least three taxable years preceding such date, then, in determining the “average of the amounts deductible”, only so many of such taxable years as such owner-employee was engaged in such trade or business and derived earned income therefrom are taken into account.

(ii) For the purpose of making the computation described in subdivision (i) of this subparagraph, the taxable years taken into account include those years in which the individual derived earned income from the trade or business but was not an owner-employee with respect to such trade or business. Furthermore, taxable years of the employer preceding the taxable year in which a qualified plan is established are taken into account.

(iii) For purposes of making the computations described in subdivisions (i) and (ii) of this subparagraph for any taxable year of the employer the average of the amounts deductible under section 404 by the employer on behalf of an owner-employee for the most recent three relevant taxable years of the employer shall be determined as if section 404, as in effect for the taxable year for which the computation is to be made, had been in effect for all three such years.

(5) For any taxable year of an employer in which contributions are made on behalf of an individual as an owner-employee under more than one plan, the amount of contributions described in this section by the employer on behalf of such an owner-employee under all such plans must not exceed $7,500.

(c) *Transitional rule for excess contributions* - (1)(i) The rules of this paragraph are inapplicable to a plan which was not in existence for any taxable year of an employer which begins before January 1, 1976. For taxable years of an employer which begin before January 1, 1976, the rules with respect to excess contributions on behalf of owner-employees set forth in section 401(d) (5) and (8) and in section 401(e), as these sections were in effect on September 1, 1974, prior to their amendment by section 2001(e) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (hereinafter in this paragraph referred to as the “Act”) (88 Stat. 954), shall apply except as provided by subparagraph (2) of this paragraph. Section 1.401-13 generally provides the rules for excess contributions on behalf of owner-employees set forth in these sections.

(ii) Notwithstanding the provisions of subdivision (i) of this subparagraph, the rules set forth in such subsections (d) (5) and (8) and (e) of section 401 with respect to excess contributions for such taxable years beginning before January 1, 1976, apply even though the application of those rules affects a subsequent taxable year. Thus, for example, if, in 1975, a nonwillful excess contribution described in section 401(e)(1) (prior to such amendment) is made on behalf of an owner-employee, the plan will not be qualified unless the provisions required by subparagraphs (A) and (B) of such 401(d)(8) are contained in the plan and made applicable to excess contributions made for such taxable years beginning before January 1, 1976. In such case, the effect of such contribution on the plan, the employer, and the owner-employee would be determined under paragraph (2) of section 401(e), as in effect on September 1, 1974. By reason of section 401(e)(2)(F), as in effect on September 1, 1974, the period for assessing any deficiency by reason of the excess contribution will not expire until the expiration of the 6-month period described in section 401(e)(2)(C), as in effect on September 1, 1974, even if the first day of such 6-month period falls in a taxable year beginning after December 31, 1975. For the rules applicable to a willful excess contribution, which generally divide an owner-employee's interest in a plan into two parts on the basis of employer taxable years beginning before and after December 31, 1975, see § 1.72-17A(e)(2)(v). In the case of a willful excess contribution, the rule specified in section 401(e)(2)(E)(iii), as in effect on September 1, 1974, shall not apply to any taxable year of an employer beginning on or after January 1, 1976. Thus, for example, if a willful excess contribution was made to a plan on behalf of an owner-employee with respect to his employer's taxable year beginning January 1, 1975, the plan would not meet, for purposes of section 404, the requirements of section 401(d) with respect to that owner-employee for such year, but the 5 taxable years following such year would be unaffected because those years begin on or after January 1, 1976.

(2)(i) For purposes of applying the excess contribution rules with respect to the employer taxable years specified in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph for such an employer taxable year which begins after December 31, 1973, see section 404(e) and § 1.404(e)-1A for rules increasing the limitation on the amount of allowable employer deductions on behalf of owner-employees under section 404. For purposes of applying subparagraphs (A) and (B)(i) of section 401(e)(1) prior to the amendment made by section 2001(e)(3) of the Act (88 Stat. 954), the employer deduction allowable by section 404(e)(4) with respect to an owner-employee in a defined contribution plan shall be deemed not to be an excess contribution (see § 1.404(e)-1A(c)(4)).

(ii) For purposes of applying the excess contribution rules with respect to the employer taxable years specified in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph to an employer's plan which was not in existence on January 1, 1974, or to a plan in existence on January 1, 1974, which elects under section 1017(d) of the Act (88 Stat. 934), in accordance with regulations, to have the funding provisions of section 412 apply to such an existing plan, see section 404 (a) (1), (a)(6), and (a)(7), as amended by section 1013(c)(1), (2), and (3) of the Act (88 Stat. 922 and 923) for rules modifying the amount of employer deductions on behalf of owner-employees.

[T.D. 7636, 44 FR 47053, Aug. 10, 1979]