##### 952.223-72 Radiation protection and nuclear criticality. #####

As prescribed in 923.7003 the clause set forth herein shall be included in those contracts or subcontracts for, and be made applicable to, work to be performed at a facility where DOE does not elect to assert its statutory authority to enforce occupational safety and health standards applicable to the working conditions of contractor and subcontractor employees, but does need to enforce radiological safety and health standards pursuant to provisions of the contract or subcontract rather than by reliance upon Nuclear Regulatory Commission licensing requirements (including agreements with states under section 274 of the Atomic Energy Act):

Radiation Protection and Nuclear Criticality (APR 1984)

The Contractor shall take all reasonable precautions in the performance of work under this contract to protect the safety and health of employees and of members of the public against the hazards of ionizing radiation and radioactive materials and shall comply with all applicable radiation protection and nuclear criticality safety standards and requirements (including reporting requirements) of DOE. The Contractor shall submit a management program and implementation plan to the Contracting Officer for review and approval within 30 days after the effective date of this contract or modification. In the event that the Contractor fails to comply with said standards and requirements of DOE, the Contracting Officer may, without prejudice to any other legal or contractual rights of DOE, issue an order stopping all or any part of the work. Thereafter, a start order for resumption of the work may be issued at the discretion of the Contracting Officer. The Contractor shall make no claim for an extension of time or for compensation or damages by reason of or in connection with such work stoppage.

(End of clause)[49 FR 12042, Mar. 28, 1984; 49 FR 38952, Oct. 2, 1984, as amended at 59 FR 9109, Feb. 25, 1994; 74 FR 36369, 36370, 36378, 36380, July 22, 2009]