##### ยง 24.4 Eligibility. #####

To be eligible for appointment to the Service an individual must have a doctoral-level degree in biomedicine or a related field and must meet the qualification standards prescribed by the U.S. Office of Personnel Management for appointment to a position at GS-15 of the General Schedule. In addition, the individual must be outstanding in the field of biomedical research or clinical research evaluation. Appointment to the Service will be made only to individuals actively engaged in either biomedical research or clinical research evaluation.

(a) Outstanding in the field of biomedical research means an individual who is actively engaged in peer-reviewed original biomedical research and whose work in this area is considered by his or her peers to be outstanding. In order to meet the eligibility criteria, an individual must have conducted original peer-reviewed biomedical research resulting in major accomplishments reflected by a steady and current record of highly cited publications in peer-reviewed journals of high stature. In addition, the individual should be the recipient of major prizes and awards (such as visiting professorships and named lectureships) in recognition of original contributions to research.

(b) Outstanding in the field of clinical research evaluation means that an individual is actively engaged in clinical research evaluation and is considered by his or her peers to be outstanding. In order to meet the eligibility criteria, an individual, by force of his or her own technical expertise, must be in a position to shape the course of drug or device evaluation or exert a similar influence on the PHS handling of other agents that may affect the public health. The individual would normally have dealt with complex, precedent-setting evaluation issues that involved significant scientific controversy, had far reaching implications for clinical research or resulted in a widespread economic effect in the health-care delivery system. In addition, the individual should have been involved in the development of scientific or regulatory guidelines for clinical research and been the recipient of invitations to speak at or to chair major national or international meetings and symposia.