##### ยง 1484.57 Will FAS make advance payments to a Cooperator? #####

(a) *Policy.* In general, FAS operates the Cooperator program on a reimbursable basis.

(b) *Exception.* Upon request, FAS may make two types of advance payments to a Cooperator. The first is a revolving fund operating advance provided by FAS only to Cooperators with foreign offices supported with project funds. The second is a special advance payment used to pay an impending large cost item. FAS will provide this type of advance expense payment in lieu of direct payments by FAS to vendors or other third parties. All Cooperators, with or without project fund-supported foreign offices, are eligible to request special advance payments. Normally, special advance payments received from FAS must be liquidated by the Cooperator within 90 days from the date of receipt. Prior to making an advance, FAS may require the participant to submit security in a form and amount acceptable to FAS to protect FAS' financial interests. FAS will not make any special advance payment to a Cooperator where a special advance is outstanding from a prior marketing plan year. Cooperators shall deposit and maintain advances in insured, interest-bearing accounts, unless such accounts are prohibited by law or custom of a host country.

(c) *Refunds due FAS.* A participant shall return any unexpended portion of an advance, plus any interest earned, either by submitting a check payable to FAS or by offsetting its next reimbursement claim. All checks shall be mailed to the Director, Marketing Operations Staff, FAS, USDA.