##### ยง 319.56-53 Fresh kiwi and baby kiwi from Chile. #####

Fresh kiwi (*Actinidia deliciosa* and *Actinidia chinensis*) may be imported into the United States from Chile, and fresh baby kiwi (*Actinidia arguta*) may be imported into the continental United States from Chile under the following conditions:

(a) The national plant protection organization (NPPO) of Chile must provide a workplan to APHIS that details the activities that the NPPO of Chile will, subject to APHIS' approval of the workplan, carry out to meet the requirements of this section.

(b) *Production site registration.* The production site where the fruit is grown must be registered with the NPPO of Chile. Harvested kiwi and baby kiwi must be placed in field cartons or containers that are marked to show the official registration number of the production site. Registration must be renewed annually.

(c) *Low-prevalence production site certification.* The fruit must originate from a low-prevalence production site to be imported under the conditions in this section. Between 1 and 30 days prior to harvest, random samples of fruit must be collected from each registered production site under the direction of the NPPO of Chile. These samples must undergo a pest detection and evaluation method as follows: The fruit must be washed using a flushing method, placed in a 20- mesh sieve on top of a 200-mesh sieve, sprinkled with a liquid soap and water solution, washed with water at high pressure, and washed with water at low pressure. The process must then be repeated. The contents of the 200-mesh sieve must then be placed on a petri dish and analyzed for the presence of live *Brevipalpus chilensis* mites. If a single live *B. chilensis* mite is found, the production site will not qualify for certification as a low-prevalence production site. Each production site may have only one opportunity per season to qualify as a low-prevalence production site, and certification of low prevalence will be valid for one harvest season only. The NPPO of Chile will present a list of certified production sites to APHIS.

(d) *Post-harvest processing.* After harvest, all damaged or diseased fruits must be culled at the packinghouse and must be packed into new, clean boxes, crates, or other APHIS-approved packing containers. Each container must have a label identifying the registered production site where the fruit originated and the packing shed where it was packed.

(e) *Phytosanitary inspection.* Fruit must be inspected in Chile at an APHIS-approved inspection site under the direction of APHIS inspectors in coordination with the NPPO of Chile following any post-harvest processing. A biometric sample must be drawn and examined from each consignment. Kiwi in any consignment may be shipped to the United States, and baby kiwi in any consignment may be shipped to the continental United States, under the conditions of this section only if the consignment passes inspection as follows:

(1) Fruit presented for inspection must be identified in the shipping documents accompanying each lot of fruit to specify the production site or sites in which the fruit was produced and the packing shed or sheds in which the fruit was processed. This identification must be maintained until the fruit is released for entry into the United States.

(2) A biometric sample of the boxes, crates, or other APHIS-approved packing containers from each consignment will be selected by the NPPO of Chile, and the fruit from these boxes, crates, or other APHIS-approved packing containers will be visually inspected for quarantine pests. A portion of the fruit must be washed with soapy water and the collected filtrate must be microscopically examined for *B. chilensis.* If a single live *B. chilensis* mite is found during the inspection process, the certified low-prevalence production site where the fruit was grown will lose its certification.

(f) *Phytosanitary certificate.* Each consignment of fresh kiwi and fresh baby kiwi must be accompanied by a phytosanitary certificate issued by the NPPO of Chile that contains an additional declaration stating that the fruit in the consignment was inspected and found free of *Brevipalpus chilensis* and was grown, packed, and shipped in accordance with the requirements of 7 CFR 319.56-53.

(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0374)[76 FR 65934, Oct. 25, 2011, as amended at 80 FR 55741, Sept. 17, 2015]