cfr/title-07-Agriculture/subtitle-B-Regulations-Department-Agriculture/chapter-IX-Agricultural-Marketing-Service-Marketing-Agreements-Orders-Fruits-Vegetables-Nuts-Department-Agriculture/part-944-Fruits-Import-Regulations/section-944.312.md, before:

##### § 944.312 Orange import regulation. #####

(a) Pursuant to section 8e (7 U.S.C. 608e-1) of the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937, as amended (7 U.S.C 601-674), and part 944—Fruits; Import Regulations, the importation into the United States of any oranges is prohibited unless such oranges grade at least U.S. No. 2, and they are at least 23/16 inches in diameter. Effective July 1 through August 31 of each year this parageaph is suspended.

(b) The term *oranges* is defined as Citrus sinensis, Osbeck.

(c) The term *importation* means release from custody of the United States Customs Service. The term *processing* means the manufacture of any orange product which has been converted into sectioned fruit or into fresh juice, or preserved by any commercial process, including canning, freezing, dehydrating, drying, and the addition of chemical substances, or by fermentation.

(d) Terms and tolerances pertaining to grade and size requirements, which are defined in the United States Standards for Grades of Oranges (Texas and States other than Florida, California, and Arizona) (7 CFR 51.680-51.714), shall be applicable herein.

(e) Any person may import up to 400 pounds a day of oranges exempt from the requirements specified in this section.

(f) The Federal or Federal-State Inspection Service, Fruit and Vegetable Division, Agricultural Marketing Service, United States Department of Agriculture, is designated as the governmental inspection service for certifying the grade, size, quality, and maturity of oranges imported into the United States. Inspection by the Federal or Federal-State Inspection Service with evidence thereof in the form of an official inspection certificate, issued by the respective service, applicable to the particular shipment of oranges, is required on all such imports. The inspection and certification services will be available upon application in accordance with the Regulations Governing Inspection, Certification and Standards of Fresh Fruits, Vegetables, and Other Products (7 CFR part 51), and in accordance with the regulation designating inspection services and procedure for obtaining inspection and certification (7 CFR 944.400).

(g) Any oranges which fail to meet the import requirements, and are not being imported for purposes of consumption by charitable institutions, distribution by relief agencies, or processing into products; prior to or after reconditioning may be exported or disposed of under the supervision of the Federal or Federal-State Inspection Service with the costs of certifying the disposal of such oranges borne by the importer.

(h) The grade, size, quality, and maturity requirements of this section shall not be applicable to oranges imported for consumption by charitable institutions, distribution by relief agencies, or processing into products, but shall be subject to the safeguard provisions contained in § 944.350, *Provided that:* oranges, imported as exempt under this regulation, cannot be shipped to processors who have facilities, equipment, or outlets to repack or sell fruit in fresh form.

(i) The Secretary has determined that oranges imported into the United States are in most direct competition with oranges grown in Texas regulated under Marketing Order No. 906.

[59 FR 25792, May 18, 1994, as amended at 60 FR 33679, June 29, 1995; 61 FR 13059, Mar. 26, 1996; 79 FR 11300, Feb. 28, 2014]

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2023-11-24 issue
Title: 7: Agriculture - Sections changed: 95
Title: 12: Banks and Banking - Sections changed: 2
Title: 15: Commerce and Foreign Trade - Sections changed: 37
Title: 18: Conservation of Power and Water Resources - Sections changed: 2
Title: 20: Employees' Benefits - Sections changed: 39
Title: 10: Energy - Sections changed: 5
Title: 48: Federal Acquisition Regulations System - Sections changed: 5
Title: 38: Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief - Sections changed: 1
Title: 40: Protection of Environment - Sections changed: 3
Title: 47: Telecommunication - Sections changed: 1
Title: 50: Wildlife and Fisheries - Sections changed: 4

cfr/title-07-Agriculture/subtitle-B-Regulations-Department-Agriculture/chapter-IX-Agricultural-Marketing-Service-Marketing-Agreements-Orders-Fruits-Vegetables-Nuts-Department-Agriculture/part-944-Fruits-Import-Regulations/section-944.312.md, after:

##### § 944.312 Orange import regulation. #####

(a) Pursuant to section 8e (7 U.S.C. 608e-1) of the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937, as amended (7 U.S.C 601-674), and part 944—Fruits; Import Regulations, the importation into the United States of any oranges is prohibited unless such oranges grade at least U.S. No. 2, and they are at least 23/16 inches in diameter. Effective July 1 through August 31 of each year this paragraph is suspended.

(b) The term *oranges* is defined as Citrus sinensis, Osbeck.

(c) The term *importation* means release from custody of the U.S. Customs and Border Protection. The term *processing* means the manufacture of any orange product which has been converted into sectioned fruit or into fresh juice, or preserved by any commercial process, including canning, freezing, dehydrating, drying, and the addition of chemical substances, or by fermentation.

(d) Terms and tolerances pertaining to grade and size requirements, which are defined in the United States Standards for Grades of Oranges (Texas and States other than Florida, California, and Arizona) (7 CFR 51.680-51.714), shall be applicable herein.

(e) Any person may import up to 400 pounds a day of oranges exempt from the requirements specified in this section.

(f) The Federal or Federal-State Inspection Service, Specialty Crop Inspection Division, Agricultural Marketing Service, United States Department of Agriculture, is designated as the governmental inspection service for certifying the grade, size, quality, and maturity of oranges imported into the United States. Inspection by the Federal or Federal-State Inspection Service with evidence thereof in the form of an official inspection certificate, issued by the respective service, applicable to the particular shipment of oranges, is required on all such imports. The inspection and certification services will be available upon application in accordance with the Regulations Governing Inspection, Certification and Standards of Fresh Fruits, Vegetables, and Other Products (7 CFR part 51), and in accordance with the regulation designating inspection services and procedure for obtaining inspection and certification (7 CFR 944.400).

(g) Any oranges which fail to meet the import requirements, and are not being imported for purposes of consumption by charitable institutions, distribution by relief agencies, or processing into products; prior to or after reconditioning may be exported or disposed of under the supervision of the Federal or Federal-State Inspection Service with the costs of certifying the disposal of such oranges borne by the importer.

(h) The grade, size, quality, and maturity requirements of this section shall not be applicable to oranges imported for consumption by charitable institutions, distribution by relief agencies, or processing into products, but shall be subject to the safeguard provisions contained in § 944.350, *Provided that:* oranges, imported as exempt under this regulation, cannot be shipped to processors who have facilities, equipment, or outlets to repack or sell fruit in fresh form.

(i) The Secretary has determined that oranges imported into the United States are in most direct competition with oranges grown in Texas regulated under Marketing Order No. 906.

[59 FR 25792, May 18, 1994, as amended at 60 FR 33679, June 29, 1995; 61 FR 13059, Mar. 26, 1996; 79 FR 11300, Feb. 28, 2014; 88 FR 82233, Nov. 24, 2023]
