##### ยง 404.1088 Retirement payment to retired partners. #####

(a) *In general.* If you are a retired partner, in figuring your net earnings from self-employment you must exclude payments made to you on a periodic basis by a partnership on account of your retirement and which are to continue until your death. This exclusion applies only if the payments are made under a written plan which meets the requirements set out in 26 CFR 1.1402(a)-(17) and the conditions in paragraph (b) of this section are met. The necessary requirements and conditions must be met throughout the entire partnership's taxable year for the payments to be excluded so that either all or none of the payments are excluded.

(b) *Other conditions.* You must have been paid your full share of the partnership's capital before the close of the partnership's taxable year in which retirement payments are made. Also, no member of the partnership can have any financial obligations to you (in his or her capacity as a partner) except to make the retirement payments. Lastly, you cannot perform any services for the partnership in the partnership's taxable year which falls wholly or partially in your taxable year in which you receive the retirement payments.

Example:D, a partner in the DEF partnership, retired from the partnership as of December 31, 1976. The taxable year of both D and the partnership is the calendar year. During the partnership's taxable year ending December 31, 1977, D rendered no service to any trade or business carried on by the partnership. On or before December 31, 1977, all obligations (other than retirement payments under the plan) from the other partners to D were liquidated, and D's share of the capital of the partnership was paid to him. Retirement payments received by D under the partnership's plan in his taxable year ending December 31, 1977, are excluded in determining net earnings from self-employment (if any) for that taxable year.