cfr/title-12-Banks-Banking/chapter-I-Comptroller-Currency-Department-Treasury/part-192-Conversions-Mutual-Stock-Form/subpart-A-Standard-Conversions/subjectgroup-ECFRcb79ee7ce698072-Offers-Sales-Stock/section-192.370.md, before:

##### § 192.370 Does the appropriate Federal banking agency limit the aggregate purchases by officers, directors, and their associates? #####

(a) When you convert, your officers, directors, and their associates may not purchase, in the aggregate, more than the following percentage of your total stock offering:

|    Institution size    |Officer and director  <br/>purchases  <br/>(percent)|
|------------------------|----------------------------------------------------|
|  $50,000,000 or less   |                         35                         |
|$50,000,001-100,000,000 |                         34                         |
|$100,000,001-150,000,000|                         33                         |
|$150,000,001-200,000,000|                         32                         |
|$200,000,001-250,000,000|                         31                         |
|$250,000,001-300,000,000|                         30                         |
|$300,000,001-350,000,000|                         29                         |
|$350,000,001-400,000,000|                         28                         |
|$400,000,001-450,000,000|                         27                         |
|$450,000,001-500,000,000|                         26                         |
|   Over $500,000,000    |                         25                         |

(b) The purchase limitations in this section do not apply to shares held in tax-qualified employee stock benefit plans that are attributable to your officers, directors, and their associates.

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2020-08-13 issue
Title: 12: Banks and Banking - Sections changed: 134
Title: 15: Commerce and Foreign Trade - Sections changed: 2
Title: 2: Federal Financial Assistance - Sections changed: 111
Title: 21: Food and Drugs - Sections changed: 1
Title: 40: Protection of Environment - Sections changed: 25

cfr/title-12-Banks-Banking/chapter-I-Comptroller-Currency-Department-Treasury/part-192-Conversions-Mutual-Stock-Form/subpart-A-Standard-Conversions/subjectgroup-ECFRcb79ee7ce698072-Offers-Sales-Stock/section-192.370.md, after:

##### § 192.370 Limits on aggregate purchases by officers, directors, and associates. #####

(a) *In general.* When a savings association converts, its officers, directors, and their associates may not purchase, in the aggregate, more than the following percentage of the savings association's total stock offering:

|    Institution size    |Officer and  <br/>director  <br/>purchases  <br/>(percent)|
|------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------|
|  $50,000,000 or less   |                            35                            |
|$50,000,001-100,000,000 |                            34                            |
|$100,000,001-150,000,000|                            33                            |
|$150,000,001-200,000,000|                            32                            |
|$200,000,001-250,000,000|                            31                            |
|$250,000,001-300,000,000|                            30                            |
|$300,000,001-350,000,000|                            29                            |
|$350,000,001-400,000,000|                            28                            |
|$400,000,001-450,000,000|                            27                            |
|$450,000,001-500,000,000|                            26                            |
|   Over $500,000,000    |                            25                            |

(b) *Exception.* The purchase limitations in this section do not apply to shares held in tax-qualified employee stock benefit plans that are attributable to the savings association's officers, directors, and their associates.
