##### ยง 31.3302(e)-1 Successor employer. #####

(a) *In general.* In addition to the credits against the tax allowable under section 3302(a) and (b) for any taxable year after 1960, the taxpayer may be entitled to an amount of credit under section 3302(e). Credit under section 3302(e) is provided in the case of a taxpayer who (1) acquires substantially all of the property used in a trade or business, or in a separate unit of a trade or business, of another person (referred to in this section as a predecessor) who is not an employer (see ยง 31.3306(a)-1) for the calendar year in which the acquisition takes place, and (2) immediately after the acquisition employs in his trade or business one or more individuals who immediately prior to the acquisition were employed in the trade or business of the predecessor.

(b) *Method of computing credit under section 3302(e).* (1) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the amount of credit to which the taxpayer may be entitled under section 3302(e) is the amount of credit to which the predecessor would be entitled under section 3302 (a), (b), and (e), without regard to the limits in section 3302(c), if the predecessor were an employer.

(2) If, during the calendar year in which the acquisition takes place, the predecessor pays remuneration, subject to contributions under the unemployment compensation law of a State, to any employee other than the individuals referred to in paragraph (a) of this section, the taxpayer will be entitled only to a portion of the amount of credit described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. The portion is determined by multiplying such amount by a fraction. The numerator of the fraction is the total amount of remuneration, subject to such contributions, paid by the predecessor during such year to the individuals referred to in paragraph (a) of this section. The denominator of the fraction is the total amount of remuneration, subject to such contributions, paid by the predecessor during such year to all employees for services performed by them in the trade or business, or unit thereof, acquired by the taxpayer.

Example.In April 1961 the X Partnership terminated after selling all of its property to the Y Corporation. During 1961, the X Partnership paid its employees and former employees a total of $1,000,000 as remuneration subject to contributions under the employment compensation law of a State. (Note that the X Partnership did not qualify as an employer for 1961 for purposes of the Federal unemployment tax, because it had employees during less than 20 weeks in 1961.) When the Y Corporation acquired the property it concurrently employed all individuals who were then in the employ of the X Partnership. Assume that the X Partnership, if it had qualified as an employer for 1961, would have been entitled to a total credit against the Federal tax of $30,000 under section 3302 (a) and (b), without regard to the limits in section 3302(c). Of the $1,000,000 remuneration paid by the X Partnership in 1961, one-fifth (or $200,000) was paid to individuals who were employed by the Y Corporation at the time it acquired the property of the X Partnership. Under section 3302(e), therefore, the Y Corporation is entitled to credit of $6,000, which is one-fifth of the credit ($30,000) which would have been available to the X Partnership.

(3) The aggregate amount of credit allowable to the taxpayer under section 3302 (a), (b), and (e) is subject to the limits in section 3302(c).

(c) *Proof of credit under section 3302(e).* Credit under section 3302(e) shall not be allowed against the tax for any taxable year unless there is submitted to the district director (1) such information or proof as may be called for in the return on which the credit is reported, or in the instructions relating to the return, and (2) such other or additional proof as the Commissioner or the district director may deem necessary to establish the right to the credit provided for under section 3302(e).

(d) *Cross-references.* See paragraph (b) of ยง 31.3306(b)(1)-1 for examples of the acquisition of property used in a trade or business, or in a separate unit thereof.

[T.D. 6658, 28 FR 6635, June 27, 1963]