cfr/title-42-Public-Health/chapter-I-Public-Health-Service-Department-Health-Human-Services/subchapter-F-Quarantine-Inspection-Licensing/part-73-Select-Agents-Toxins/section-73.6.md, before:

##### § 73.6 Exemptions for overlap select agents and toxins. #####

Link to an amendment published at 82 FR 6292, January 19, 2017.This amendment was delayed until March 21, 2017, at 82 FR 10863, Feb. 16, 2017.

(a) Clinical or diagnostic laboratories and other entities that possess, use, or transfer an overlap select agent or toxin that is contained in a specimen presented for diagnosis or verification will be exempt from the requirements of this part for such agent or toxin contained in the specimen, provided that:

(1) Unless directed otherwise by the HHS Secretary or Administrator, within seven calendar days after identification, the select agent or toxin is transferred in accordance with § 73.16 or 9 CFR part 121.16 or destroyed on-site by a recognized sterilization or inactivation process,

(2) The select agent or toxin is secured against theft, loss, or release during the period between identification of the select agent or toxin and transfer or destruction of such agent or toxin, and any theft, loss, or release of such agent or toxin is reported, and

(3) The identification of the select agent or toxin is reported to CDC or APHIS and to other appropriate authorities when required by Federal, State, or local law.

(i) The identification of any of the following overlap select agents or toxins must be immediately reported by telephone, facsimile, or e-mail: *Bacillus anthracis, Burkholderia mallei* and *Burkholderia pseudomallei.* This report must be followed by submission of APHIS/CDC Form 4 within seven calendar days after identification.

(ii) For all other overlap select agents or toxins, APHIS/CDC Form 4 must be submitted within seven calendar days after identification.

(iii) Less stringent reporting may be required based on extraordinary circumstances, such as a widespread outbreak.

(iv) A copy of APHIS/CDC Form 4 must be maintained for three years.

(b) Clinical or diagnostic laboratories and other entities that possess, use, or transfer an overlap select agent or toxin that is contained in a specimen presented for proficiency testing will be exempt from the requirements of this part for such agent or toxin contained in the specimen, provided that:

(1) Unless directed otherwise by the HHS Secretary or Administrator, within 90 calendar days of receipt, the select agent or toxin is transferred in accordance with § 73.16 or 9 CFR part 121.16 or destroyed on-site by a recognized sterilization or inactivation process,

(2) The select agent or toxin is secured against theft, loss, or release during the period between identification of the select agent or toxin and transfer or destruction of such agent or toxin, and the theft, loss, or release of such agent or toxin is reported, and

(3) The identification of the select agent or toxin, and its derivative, is reported to CDC or APHIS and to other appropriate authorities when required by Federal, State, or local law. To report the identification of an overlap select agent or toxin, APHIS/CDC Form 4 must be submitted within 90 calendar days of receipt of the select agent or toxin. A copy of the completed form must be maintained for three years.

(c) Unless the HHS Secretary issues an order making specific provisions of this part applicable to protect public health and safety, products that are, bear, or contain listed select agents or toxins that are cleared, approved, licensed, or registered under any of the following laws, are exempt from the provisions of this part insofar as their use meets the requirements of such laws:

(1) The Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 301 *et seq.*),

(2) Section 351 of the Public Health Service Act pertaining to biological products (42 U.S.C. 262),

(3) The Act commonly known as the Virus-Serum-Toxin Act (21 U.S.C. 151-159), or

(4) The Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (7 U.S.C. 136 *et seq.*).

(d) The HHS Secretary, after consultation with Administrator, may exempt from the requirements of this part an investigational product that is, bears, or contains an overlap select agent or toxin, may be exempted when such product is being used in an investigation authorized under any Federal Act and additional regulation under this part is not necessary to protect public health and safety.

(1) To apply for an exemption, an individual or entity must submit a completed APHIS/CDC Form 5.

(2) The HHS Secretary shall make a determination regarding the application within 14 calendar days after receipt, provided the application meets all of the requirements of this section and the application establishes that the investigation has been authorized under the cited Act. A written decision granting or denying the request will be issued.

(3) The applicant must notify CDC or APHIS when an authorization for an investigation no longer exists. This exemption automatically terminates when such authorization is no longer in effect.

(e) The HHS Secretary may exempt an individual or entity from the requirements of this part based on a determination that the exemption is necessary to provide for the timely participation of the individual or entity in response to a domestic or foreign public health emergency. The HHS Secretary may extend the exemption once for additional 30 days.

(f) Upon request of the Administrator, the HHS Secretary may exempt an individual or entity from the requirements, in whole or in part, of this part for 30 calendar days if the Administrator has granted the exemption for agricultural emergency. The HHS Secretary may extend the exemption once for an additional 30 calendar days.

[70 FR 13316, Mar. 18, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 61366, Oct. 16, 2008; 77 FR 61112, Oct. 5, 2012; 79 FR 26862, May 12, 2014]

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2017-03-21 issue
Title: 5: Administrative Personnel - Sections changed: 34
Title: 14: Aeronautics and Space - Sections changed: 26
Title: 7: Agriculture - Sections changed: 12
Title: 9: Animals and Animal Products - Sections changed: 15
Title: 13: Business Credit and Assistance - Sections changed: 21
Title: 15: Commerce and Foreign Trade - Sections changed: 1
Title: 19: Customs Duties - Sections changed: 14
Title: 34: Education - Sections changed: 29
Title: 10: Energy - Sections changed: 31
Title: 2: Federal Financial Assistance - Sections changed: 1
Title: 21: Food and Drugs - Sections changed: 76
Title: 24: Housing and Urban Development - Sections changed: 1
Title: 26: Internal Revenue - Sections changed: 3
Title: 28: Judicial Administration - Sections changed: 2
Title: 29: Labor - Sections changed: 8
Title: 36: Parks, Forests, and Public Property - Sections changed: 12
Title: 37: Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights - Sections changed: 2
Title: 38: Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief - Sections changed: 4
Title: 40: Protection of Environment - Sections changed: 54
Title: 42: Public Health - Sections changed: 89
Title: 47: Telecommunication - Sections changed: 10
Title: 49: Transportation - Sections changed: 14
Title: 50: Wildlife and Fisheries - Sections changed: 26

cfr/title-42-Public-Health/chapter-I-Public-Health-Service-Department-Health-Human-Services/subchapter-F-Quarantine-Inspection-Licensing/part-73-Select-Agents-Toxins/section-73.6.md, after:

##### § 73.6 Exemptions for overlap select agents and toxins. #####

(a) Clinical or diagnostic laboratories and other entities that possess, use, or transfer an overlap select agent or toxin that is contained in a specimen presented for diagnosis or verification will be exempt from the requirements of this part for such agent or toxin contained in the specimen, provided that:

(1) Unless directed otherwise by the HHS Secretary or Administrator, within seven calendar days after identification, the select agent or toxin is transferred in accordance with § 73.16 or 9 CFR part 121.16 or destroyed on-site by a recognized sterilization or inactivation process,

(2) The select agent or toxin is secured against theft, loss, or release during the period between identification of the select agent or toxin and transfer or destruction of such agent or toxin, and any theft, loss, or release of such agent or toxin is reported, and

(3) Unless otherwise directed by the HHS Secretary or Administrator, the clinical or diagnostic specimens collected from a patient infected with a select agent are transferred in accordance with § 73.16 or destroyed on-site by a recognized sterilization or inactivation process within seven calendar days after delivery of patient care by health care professionals has concluded, and

(4) The identification of the agent or toxin is reported to CDC or APHIS, the specimen provider, and to other appropriate authorities when required by Federal, State, or local law by telephone, facsimile, or email. This report must be followed by submission of APHIS/CDC Form 4 to APHIS or CDC within seven calendar days after identification.

(i) The identification of any of the following overlap select agents or toxins must be immediately reported by telephone, facsimile, or e-mail: *Bacillus anthracis, Burkholderia mallei* and *Burkholderia pseudomallei.* This report must be followed by submission of APHIS/CDC Form 4 within seven calendar days after identification.

(ii) For all other overlap select agents or toxins, APHIS/CDC Form 4 must be submitted within seven calendar days after identification.

(iii) Less stringent reporting may be required based on extraordinary circumstances, such as a widespread outbreak.

(iv) A copy of APHIS/CDC Form 4 must be maintained for three years.

(b) Clinical or diagnostic laboratories and other entities that possess, use, or transfer an overlap select agent or toxin that is contained in a specimen presented for proficiency testing will be exempt from the requirements of this part for such agent or toxin contained in the specimen, provided that:

(1) Unless directed otherwise by the HHS Secretary or Administrator, within 90 calendar days of receipt, the select agent or toxin is transferred in accordance with § 73.16 or 9 CFR part 121.16 or destroyed on-site by a recognized sterilization or inactivation process,

(2) The select agent or toxin is secured against theft, loss, or release during the period between identification of the select agent or toxin and transfer or destruction of such agent or toxin, and the theft, loss, or release of such agent or toxin is reported, and

(3) The identification of the select agent or toxin, and its derivative, is reported to CDC or APHIS and to other appropriate authorities when required by Federal, State, or local law. To report the identification of an overlap select agent or toxin, APHIS/CDC Form 4 must be submitted within 90 calendar days of receipt of the select agent or toxin. A copy of the completed form must be maintained for three years.

(c) Unless the HHS Secretary issues an order making specific provisions of this part applicable to protect public health and safety, products that are, bear, or contain listed select agents or toxins that are cleared, approved, licensed, or registered under any of the following laws, are exempt from the provisions of this part insofar as their use meets the requirements of such laws:

(1) The Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 301 *et seq.*),

(2) Section 351 of the Public Health Service Act pertaining to biological products (42 U.S.C. 262),

(3) The Act commonly known as the Virus-Serum-Toxin Act (21 U.S.C. 151-159), or

(4) The Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (7 U.S.C. 136 *et seq.*).

(d) The HHS Secretary, after consultation with Administrator, may exempt from the requirements of this part an investigational product that is, bears, or contains an overlap select agent or toxin, may be exempted when such product is being used in an investigation authorized under any Federal Act and additional regulation under this part is not necessary to protect public health and safety.

(1) To apply for an exemption, an individual or entity must submit a completed APHIS/CDC Form 5.

(2) The HHS Secretary shall make a determination regarding the application within 14 calendar days after receipt, provided the application meets all of the requirements of this section and the application establishes that the investigation has been authorized under the cited Act. A written decision granting or denying the request will be issued.

(3) The applicant must notify CDC or APHIS when an authorization for an investigation no longer exists. This exemption automatically terminates when such authorization is no longer in effect.

(e) The HHS Secretary may exempt an individual or entity from the requirements of this part based on a determination that the exemption is necessary to provide for the timely participation of the individual or entity in response to a domestic or foreign public health emergency. The HHS Secretary may extend the exemption once for additional 30 days.

(f) Upon request of the Administrator, the HHS Secretary may exempt an individual or entity from the requirements, in whole or in part, of this part for 30 calendar days if the Administrator has granted the exemption for agricultural emergency. The HHS Secretary may extend the exemption once for an additional 30 calendar days.

[70 FR 13316, Mar. 18, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 61366, Oct. 16, 2008; 77 FR 61112, Oct. 5, 2012; 79 FR 26862, May 12, 2014;82 FR 6292, Jan. 19, 2017]
