##### § 1.597-5 Taxable Transfers. #####

(a) *Taxable Transfers*—(1) *Defined.* The term *Taxable Transfer* means—

(i) A transaction in which an entity transfers to a transferee other than a Bridge Bank—

(A) Any deposit liability (whether or not the Institution also transfers assets), if FFA is provided in connection with the transaction; or

(B) Any asset for which an Agency or a Controlled Entity has any financial obligation (for example, pursuant to a Loss Guarantee or Agency Obligation); or

(ii) A deemed transfer of assets described in paragraph (b) of this section.

(2) *Scope.* This section provides rules governing Taxable Transfers. Rules applicable to both actual and deemed asset acquisitions are provided in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section. Special rules applicable only to deemed asset acquisitions are provided in paragraph (e) of this section.

(b) *Deemed asset acquisitions upon stock purchase*—(1) *In general.* In a deemed transfer of assets under this paragraph (b), an Institution (including a Bridge Bank or a Residual Entity) or a Consolidated Subsidiary of the Institution (the Old Entity) is treated as selling all of its assets in a single transaction and is treated as a new corporation (the New Entity) that purchases all of the Old Entity's assets at the close of the day immediately preceding the occurrence of an event described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. However, such an event results in a deemed transfer of assets under this paragraph (b) only if it occurs—

(i) In connection with a transaction in which FFA is provided;

(ii) While the Institution is a Bridge Bank;

(iii) While the Institution has a positive balance in a deferred FFA account (see § 1.597-2(c)(4)(v) regarding the optional accelerated recapture of deferred FFA); or

(iv) With respect to a Consolidated Subsidiary, while the Institution of which it is a Consolidated Subsidiary is under Agency Control.

(2) *Events.* A deemed transfer of assets under this paragraph (b) results if the Institution or Consolidated Subsidiary—

(i) Becomes a non-member (within the meaning of § 1.1502-32(d)(4)) of its consolidated group, other than pursuant to an election under § 1.597-4(g);

(ii) Becomes a member of an affiliated group of which it was not previously a member, other than pursuant to an election under § 1.597-4(g); or

(iii) Issues stock such that the stock that was outstanding before the imposition of Agency Control or the occurrence of any transaction in connection with the provision of FFA represents 50 percent or less of the vote or value of its outstanding stock (disregarding stock described in section 1504(a)(4) and stock owned by an Agency or a Controlled Entity).

(3) *Bridge Banks and Residual Entities.* If a Bridge Bank is treated as selling all of its assets to a New Entity under this paragraph (b), each associated Residual Entity is treated as simultaneously selling its assets to a New Entity in a Taxable Transfer described in this paragraph (b).

(c) *Treatment of transferor*—(1) *FFA in connection with a Taxable Transfer.* A transferor in a Taxable Transfer is treated as having directly received immediately before a Taxable Transfer any Net Worth Assistance that an Agency provides to the New Entity or the Acquiring in connection with the transfer. (See § 1.597-2(a) and (c) for rules regarding the inclusion of FFA in income and § 1.597-2(a)(1) for related rules regarding FFA provided to shareholders.) The Net Worth Assistance is treated as an asset of the transferor that is sold to the New Entity or the Acquiring in the Taxable Transfer.

(2) *Amount realized in a Taxable Transfer.* In a Taxable Transfer described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, the amount realized is determined under section 1001(b) by reference to the consideration paid for the assets. In a Taxable Transfer described in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section, the amount realized is the sum of the grossed-up basis of the stock acquired in connection with the Taxable Transfer (excluding stock acquired from the Old or New Entity), plus the amount of liabilities assumed or taken subject to in the deemed transfer, plus other relevant items. The grossed-up basis of the acquired stock equals the acquirers' basis in the acquired stock divided by the percentage of the Old Entity's stock (by value) attributable to the acquired stock.

(3) *Allocation of amount realized*—(i) *In general.* The amount realized under paragraph (c)(2) of this section is allocated among the assets transferred in the Taxable Transfer in the same manner as amounts are allocated among assets under § 1.338-6(b) and (c)(1) and (2).

(ii) *Modifications to general rule.* This paragraph (c)(3)(ii) modifies certain of the allocation rules of paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section. Agency Obligations and Covered Assets in the hands of the New Entity or the Acquiring are treated as Class II assets. Stock of a Consolidated Subsidiary is treated as a Class II asset to the extent the fair market value of the Consolidated Subsidiary's Class I and Class II assets (see § 1.597-1(b)) exceeds the amount of its liabilities. The fair market value of an Agency Obligation is deemed to equal its adjusted issue price immediately before the Taxable Transfer.

(d) *Treatment of a New Entity and an Acquiring*—(1) *Purchase price.* The purchase price for assets acquired in a Taxable Transfer described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section is the cost of the assets acquired. See § 1.1060-1(c)(1). All assets transferred in related transactions pursuant to an option included in an agreement between the transferor and the Acquiring in the Taxable Transfer are included in the group of assets among which the consideration paid is allocated for purposes of determining the New Entity's or the Acquiring's basis in each of the assets. The purchase price for assets acquired in a Taxable Transfer described in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section is the sum of the grossed-up basis of the stock acquired in connection with the Taxable Transfer (excluding stock acquired from the Old or New Entity), plus the amount of liabilities assumed or taken subject to in the deemed transfer, plus other relevant items. The grossed-up basis of the acquired stock equals the acquirers' basis in the acquired stock divided by the percentage of the Old Entity's stock (by value) attributable to the acquired stock. FFA provided in connection with a Taxable Transfer is not included in the New Entity's or the Acquiring's purchase price for the acquired assets. Any Net Worth Assistance so provided is treated as an asset of the transferor sold to the New Entity or the Acquiring in the Taxable Transfer.

(2) *Allocation of basis*—(i) *In general.* Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (d)(2), the purchase price determined under paragraph (d)(1) of this section is allocated among the assets transferred in the Taxable Transfer in the same manner as amounts are allocated among assets under § 1.338-6(b) and (c)(1) and (2).

(ii) *Modifications to general rule.* The allocation rules contained in paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section apply to the allocation of basis among assets acquired in a Taxable Transfer. No basis is allocable to an Agency's agreement to provide Loss Guarantees, yield maintenance payments, cost to carry or cost of funds reimbursement payments, or expense reimbursement or indemnity payments. A New Entity's basis in assets it receives from its shareholders is determined under general federal income tax principles and is not governed by this paragraph (d).

(iii) *Allowance and recapture of additional basis in certain cases.* The basis of Class I and Class II assets equals their fair market value. See § 1.597-1(b). If the fair market value of the Class I and Class II assets exceeds the purchase price for the acquired assets, the excess is included ratably as ordinary income by the New Entity or the Acquiring over a period of six taxable years beginning in the year of the Taxable Transfer. The New Entity or the Acquiring must include as ordinary income the entire amount remaining to be recaptured under the preceding sentence in the taxable year in which an event occurs that would accelerate inclusion of an adjustment under section 481.

(iv) *Certain post-transfer adjustments*—(A) *Agency Obligations.* If an adjustment to the principal amount of an Agency Obligation or cash payment to reflect a more accurate determination of the condition of the Institution at the time of the Taxable Transfer is made before the earlier of the date the New Entity or the Acquiring files its first post-transfer federal income tax return or the due date of that return (including extensions), the New Entity or the Acquiring must adjust its basis in its acquired assets to reflect the adjustment. In making adjustments to the New Entity's or the Acquiring's basis in its acquired assets, paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section is applied by treating an adjustment to the principal amount of an Agency Obligation pursuant to the first sentence of this paragraph (d)(2)(iv)(A) as occurring immediately before the Taxable Transfer. (See § 1.597-3(c)(3) for rules regarding other adjustments to the principal amount of an Agency Obligation.)

(B) *Covered Assets.* If, immediately after a Taxable Transfer, an asset is not subject to a Loss Guarantee but the New Entity or the Acquiring has the right to designate specific assets that will be subject to the Loss Guarantee, the New Entity or the Acquiring must treat any asset so designated as having been subject to the Loss Guarantee at the time of the Taxable Transfer. The New Entity or the Acquiring must adjust its basis in the Covered Assets and in its other acquired assets to reflect the designation in the manner provided by paragraph (d)(2) of this section. The New Entity or the Acquiring must make appropriate adjustments in subsequent taxable years if the designation is made after the New Entity or the Acquiring files its first post-transfer federal income tax return or the due date of that return (including extensions) has passed.

(e) *Special rules applicable to Taxable Transfers that are deemed asset acquisitions*—(1) *Taxpayer Identification Numbers.* Except as provided in paragraph (e)(3) of this section, the New Entity succeeds to the TIN of the Old Entity in a deemed sale under paragraph (b) of this section.

(2) *Consolidated Subsidiaries*—(i) *In general.* A Consolidated Subsidiary that is treated as selling its assets in a Taxable Transfer under paragraph (b) of this section is treated as engaging immediately thereafter in a complete liquidation to which section 332 applies. The consolidated group of which the Consolidated Subsidiary is a member does not take into account gain or loss on the sale, exchange, or cancellation of stock of the Consolidated Subsidiary in connection with the Taxable Transfer.

(ii) *Certain minority shareholders.* Shareholders of the Consolidated Subsidiary that are not members of the consolidated group that includes the Institution do not recognize gain or loss with respect to shares of Consolidated Subsidiary stock retained by the shareholder. The shareholder's basis for that stock is not affected by the Taxable Transfer.

(3) *Bridge Banks and Residual Entities*—(i) *In general.* A Bridge Bank or Residual Entity's sale of assets to a New Entity under paragraph (b) of this section is treated as made by a single entity under § 1.597-4(e). The New Entity deemed to acquire the assets of a Residual Entity under paragraph (b) of this section is not treated as a single entity with the Bridge Bank (or with the New Entity acquiring the Bridge Bank's assets) and must obtain a new TIN.

(ii) *Treatment of consolidated groups.* At the time of a Taxable Transfer described in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section, treatment of a Bridge Bank as a subsidiary member of a consolidated group under § 1.597-4(f)(1) ceases. However, the New Entity that is deemed to acquire the assets of a Residual Entity is a member of the selling consolidated group after the deemed sale. The group's basis or excess loss account in the stock of the New Entity that is deemed to acquire the assets of the Residual Entity is the group's basis or excess loss account in the stock of the Bridge Bank immediately before the deemed sale, as adjusted for the results of the sale.

(4) *Certain returns.* If an Old Entity without Continuing Equity is not a subsidiary of a consolidated group at the time of the Taxable Transfer, the controlling Agency must file all federal income tax returns for the Old Entity for periods ending on or prior to the date of the deemed sale described in paragraph (b) of this section that are not filed as of that date.

(5) *Basis limited to fair market value.* If all of the stock of the corporation is not acquired on the date of the Taxable Transfer, the Commissioner may make appropriate adjustments under paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section to the extent using a grossed-up basis of the stock of a corporation results in an aggregate amount realized for, or basis in, the assets other than the aggregate fair market value of the assets.

(f) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the provisions of this section. For purposes of these examples, an Institution's loans are treated as if they were a single asset. However, in applying these regulations, the fair market value of each loan (including, for purposes of a Covered Asset, the Third-Party Price and the Expected Value) must be determined separately.

Example 1.*Branch sale resulting in Taxable Transfer.* (i) Institution M is a calendar-year taxpayer in Agency Receivership. M is not a member of a consolidated group. On January 1, 2018, M has $200 million of liabilities (including deposit liabilities) and assets with an adjusted basis of $100 million. M has no income or loss for 2018 and, except as otherwise described in this paragraph (i), M receives no FFA. On September 30, 2018, the Agency causes M to transfer six branches (with assets having an adjusted basis of $1 million) together with $120 million of deposit liabilities to N. In connection with the transfer, the Agency provides $121 million in cash to N.

(ii) The transaction is a Taxable Transfer in which M receives $121 million of Net Worth Assistance under paragraph (a)(1) of this section. (M is treated as directly receiving the $121 million of Net Worth Assistance immediately before the Taxable Transfer under paragraph (c)(1) of this section.) M transfers branches having a basis of $1 million and is treated as transferring $121 million in cash (the Net Worth Assistance) to N in exchange for N's assumption of $120 million of liabilities. Thus, M realizes a loss of $2 million on the transfer. The amount of the FFA M must include in its income in 2018 is limited by paragraph (c) of § 1.597-2 to $102 million, which is the sum of the $100 million excess of M's liabilities ($200 million) over the total adjusted basis of its assets ($100 million) at the beginning of 2018 and the $2 million excess for the taxable year (which results from the Taxable Transfer) of M's deductions (other than carryovers) over its gross income other than FFA. M must establish a deferred FFA account for the remaining $19 million of FFA under paragraph (c)(4) of § 1.597-2.

(iii) N, as the Acquiring, must allocate its $120 million purchase price for the assets acquired from M among those assets. Cash is a Class I asset. The branch assets are in Classes III and IV. N's adjusted basis in the cash is its amount, that is, $121 million under paragraph (d)(2) of this section. Because this amount exceeds N's purchase price for all of the acquired assets by $1 million, N allocates no basis to the other acquired assets and, under paragraph (d)(2) of this section, must recapture the $1 million excess at an annual rate of $166,667 in the six consecutive taxable years beginning with 2018 (subject to acceleration for certain events).

Example 2.*Stock issuance by Bridge Bank causing Taxable Transfer.* (i) On April 1, 2018, Institution P is placed in Agency Receivership and the Agency causes P to transfer assets and liabilities to Bridge Bank PB. On August 31, 2018, the assets of PB consist of $20 million in cash, loans outstanding with an adjusted basis of $50 million and a Third-Party Price of $40 million, and other non-financial assets (primarily branch assets and equipment) with an adjusted basis of $5 million. PB has deposit liabilities of $95 million and other liabilities of $5 million. P, the Residual Entity, holds real estate with an adjusted basis of $10 million and claims in litigation having a zero basis. P retains no deposit liabilities and has no other liabilities (except its liability to the Agency for having caused its deposit liabilities to be satisfied).

(ii) On September 1, 2018, the Agency causes PB to issue 100 percent of its common stock for $2 million cash to X. On the same day, the Agency issues a $25 million note to PB. The note bears a fixed rate of interest in excess of the applicable Federal rate in effect for September 1, 2018. The Agency provides Loss Guarantees guaranteeing PB a value of $50 million for PB's loans outstanding.

(iii) The stock issuance is a Taxable Transfer in which PB is treated as selling all of its assets to a new corporation, New PB, under paragraph (b)(1) of this section. PB is treated as directly receiving $25 million of Net Worth Assistance (the issue price of the Agency Obligation) immediately before the Taxable Transfer under paragraph (c)(2) of § 1.597-3 and paragraph (c)(1) of this section. The amount of FFA PB must include in income is determined under paragraphs (a) and (c) of § 1.597-2. PB in turn is deemed to transfer the note (with a basis of $25 million) to New PB in the Taxable Transfer, together with $20 million of cash, all its loans outstanding (with a basis of $50 million) and its other non-financial assets (with a basis of $5 million). The amount realized by PB from the sale is $100 million (the amount of PB's liabilities deemed to be assumed by New PB). This amount realized equals PB's basis in its assets; thus, PB realizes no gain or loss on the transfer to New PB.

(iv) Residual Entity P also is treated as selling all its assets (consisting of real estate and claims in litigation) for $0 (the amount of consideration received by P) to a new corporation (New P) in a Taxable Transfer under paragraph (b)(3) of this section. (P's only liability is to the Agency and a liability to the Agency is not treated as a debt under paragraph (b) of § 1.597-3.) P's basis in its assets is $10 million; thus, P realizes a $10 million loss on the transfer to New P. The combined return filed by PB and P for 2018 will reflect a total loss on the Taxable Transfer of $10 million ($0 for PB and $10 million for P) under paragraph (e)(3) of this section. That return also will reflect FFA income from the Net Worth Assistance, determined under paragraphs (a) and (c) of § 1.597-2.

(v) New PB is treated as having acquired the assets it acquired from PB for $100 million, the amount of liabilities assumed. In allocating basis among these assets, New PB treats the Agency note and the loans outstanding (which are Covered Assets) as Class II assets. For the purpose of allocating basis, the fair market value of the Agency note is deemed to equal its adjusted issue price immediately before the transfer ($25 million), and the fair market value of the loans is their Expected Value, $50 million (the sum of the $40 million Third-Party Price and the $10 million that the Agency would pay if PB sold the loans for $40 million) under paragraph (b) of § 1.597-1. Alternatively, if the Third-Party Price for the loans were $60 million, then the fair market value of the loans would be $60 million, and there would be no payment from the Agency.

(vi) New P is treated as having acquired its assets for no consideration. Thus, its basis in its assets immediately after the transfer is zero. New PB and New P are not treated as a single entity under paragraph (e)(3) of this section.

Example 3.*Taxable Transfer of previously disaffiliated Institution.* (i) Corporation X, the common parent of a consolidated group, owns all the stock of Institution M, an insolvent Institution with no Consolidated Subsidiaries. On April 30, 2018, M has $4 million of deposit liabilities, $1 million of other liabilities, and assets with an adjusted basis of $4 million. On May 1, 2018, M is placed in Agency Receivership. X elects under paragraph (g) of § 1.597-4 to disaffiliate M. Accordingly, as of May 1, 2018, new corporation M is not a member of the X consolidated group. On May 1, 2018, the Agency causes M to transfer all of its assets and liabilities to Bridge Bank MB. Under paragraphs (e) and (g)(4) of § 1.597-4, MB and M are thereafter treated as a single entity which has $5 million of liabilities, an account receivable for future FFA with a basis of $1 million, and other assets with a basis of $4 million.

(ii) During May 2018, MB earns $25,000 of interest income and accrues $20,000 of interest expense on depositor accounts and there is no net change in deposits other than the additional $20,000 of interest expense accrued on depositor accounts. MB pays $5,000 of wage expenses and has no other items of income or expense.

(iii) On June 1, 2018, the Agency causes MB to issue 100 percent of its stock to Corporation Y. In connection with the stock issuance, the Agency provides an Agency Obligation for $2 million and no other FFA.

(iv) The stock issuance results in a Taxable Transfer under paragraph (b) of this section. MB is treated as receiving the Agency Obligation immediately prior to the Taxable Transfer under paragraph (c)(1) of this section. MB has $1 million of basis in its account receivable for FFA. This receivable is treated as satisfied, offsetting $1 million of the $2 million of FFA provided by the Agency in connection with the Taxable Transfer. The status of the remaining $1 million of FFA as includible income is determined as of the end of the taxable year under paragraph (c) of § 1.597-2. However, under paragraph (b) of § 1.597-2, MB obtains a $2 million basis in the Agency Obligation received as FFA.

(v) Under paragraph (c)(2) of this section, in the Taxable Transfer, Old Entity MB is treated as selling, to New Entity MB, all of Old Entity MB's assets, having a basis of $6,020,000 (the original $4 million of asset basis as of April 30, 2018, plus $20,000 net cash from May 2018 activities, plus the $2 million Agency Obligation received as FFA), for $5,020,000, the amount of Old Entity MB's liabilities assumed by New Entity MB pursuant to the Taxable Transfer. Therefore, Old Entity MB recognizes, in the aggregate, a loss of $1 million from the Taxable Transfer.

(vi) Because this $1 million loss causes Old Entity MB's deductions to exceed its gross income (determined without regard to FFA) by $1 million, Old Entity MB must include in its income the $1 million of FFA not offset by the FFA receivable under paragraph (c) of § 1.597-2. (As of May 1, 2018, Old Entity MB's liabilities ($5 million) did not exceed MB's $5 million adjusted basis of its assets. For the taxable year, MB's deductions of $1,025,000 ($1 million loss from the Taxable Transfer, $20,000 interest expense and $5,000 of wage expense) exceeded its gross income (disregarding FFA) of $25,000 (interest income) by $1 million. Thus, under paragraph (c) of § 1.597-2, MB includes in income the entire $1 million of FFA not offset by the FFA receivable.)

(vii) Therefore, Old Entity MB's taxable income for the taxable year ending on the date of the Taxable Transfer is $0.

(viii) Residual Entity M is also deemed to engage in a deemed sale of its assets to New Entity M under paragraph (b)(3) of this section, but there are no federal income tax consequences as M has no assets or liabilities at the time of the deemed sale.

(ix) Under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, New Entity MB is treated as purchasing Old Entity MB's assets for $5,020,000, the amount of New Entity MB's liabilities. Of this, $2 million is allocated to the $2 million Agency Obligation, and $3,020,000 is allocated to the other assets New Entity MB is treated as purchasing in the Taxable Transfer.

Example 4.*Loss Guarantee.* On January 1, 2018, Institution N acquires assets and assumes liabilities of another Institution in a Taxable Transfer. In exchange for assuming $1,100,000 of the transferring Institution's liabilities, N acquires Net Worth Assistance of $200,000, loans with an unpaid principal balance of $1 million, and two foreclosed properties each having a book value of $100,000 in the hands of the transferring Institution. In connection with the Taxable Transfer, an Agency guarantees N a price of $800,000 on the disposition or charge-off of the loans and a price of $80,000 on the disposition or charge-off of each of the foreclosed properties. This arrangement constitutes a Loss Guarantee. The Third-Party Price is $500,000 for the loans and $50,000 for each of the foreclosed properties. For basis allocation purposes, the loans and foreclosed properties are Class II assets because they are Covered Assets, and N must allocate basis to such assets equal to their fair market value under paragraphs (c)(3)(ii) and (d)(2)(ii) and (iii) of this section. The fair market value of the loans is their Expected Value, $800,000 (the sum of the $500,000 Third-Party Price and the $300,000 that the Agency would pay if N sold the loans for $500,000). The fair market value of each foreclosed property is its Expected Value, $80,000 (the sum of the $50,000 Third-Party Price and the $30,000 that the Agency would pay if N sold the foreclosed property for $50,000) under paragraph (b) of § 1.597-1. Accordingly, N's basis in the loans and in each of the foreclosed properties is $800,000 and $80,000, respectively. Because N's aggregate basis in the cash, loans, and foreclosed properties ($1,160,000) exceeds N's purchase price ($1,100,000) by $60,000, N must include $60,000 in income ratably over six years under paragraph (d)(2)(iii) of this section.Example 5.*Loss Share Agreement.* (i) The facts are the same as in *Example 4* of this paragraph (f) except that, in connection with the Taxable Transfer, the Agency agrees to reimburse Institution N in an amount equal to zero percent of any loss realized (based on the $1 million unpaid principal balance of the loans and the $100,000 book value of each of the foreclosed properties) on the disposition or charge-off of the Covered Assets up to $200,000; 50 percent of any loss realized between $200,000 and $700,000; and 95 percent of any additional loss realized. This arrangement constitutes a Loss Guarantee that is a Loss Share Agreement. Thus, the Covered Assets are Class II assets, and N allocates basis to such assets equal to their fair market value under paragraphs (c)(3)(ii) and (d)(2)(ii) and (iii) of this section. Because the Third-Party Price for all of the Covered Assets is $600,000 ($500,000 for the loans and $50,000 for each of the foreclosed properties), the Average Reimbursement Rate is 33.33% ((($200,000 × 0%) + ($400,000 × 50%) + ($0 × 95%))/$600,000). The Expected Value of the loans is $666,667 ($500,000 Third-Party Price + $166,667 (the amount of the loss if the loans were disposed of for the Third-Party Price × 33.33%)), and the Expected Value of each foreclosed property is $66,667 ($50,000 Third-Party Price + $16,667 (the amount of the loss if the foreclosed property were sold for the Third-Party Price × 33.33%)) under paragraph (b) of § 1.597-1. For purposes of allocating basis, the fair market value of the loans is $666,667 (their Expected Value), and the fair market value of each foreclosed property is $66,667 (its Expected Value) under paragraph (b) of § 1.597-1.

(ii) At the end of 2018, the Third-Party Price for the loans drops to $400,000, and the Third-Party Price for each of the foreclosed properties remains at $50,000. The fair market value of the loans at the end of Year 2 is their Expected Value, $600,000 ($400,000 Third-Party Price + $200,000 (the amount of the loss if the loans were disposed of for the Third-Party Price × 33.33%) (the Average Reimbursement Rate does not change)). Thus, if the loans otherwise may be charged off, marked to a market value, depreciated, or amortized, then the loans may be marked down to $600,000. The fair market value of each of the foreclosed properties remains at $66,667 ($50,000 Third-Party Price + $16,667 (the amount of the loss if the foreclosed property were sold for the Third-Party Price × 33.33%)). Therefore, the foreclosed properties may not be charged off or depreciated in 2018.

[T.D. 9825, 82 FR 48625, Oct. 19, 2017, as amended at 82 FR 61177, Dec. 27, 2017]