##### § 319.56-52 Tomatoes with stems from the Republic of Korea. #####

Fresh tomatoes with stems (*Solanum lycopersicum* L.) (Synonym: *Lycopersicon esculentum* P. Mill.) may be imported into the United States from the Republic of Korea only under the conditions described in this section. These conditions are designed to prevent the introduction of the following quarantine pests: *Bactrocera depressa,**Heliocoverpa armigera,**Heliocoverpa assulta,**Mamestra brassicae,**Ostrinia furnacalis,**Scirtothrips dorsalis,* and *Thrips palmi.*

(a) *Registered pest-exclusionary structures.* The tomatoes must be grown in pest-exclusionary structures that are registered with the national plant protection organization (NPPO) of the Republic of Korea and approved by the NPPO of the Republic of Korea and APHIS.

(1) The pest-exclusionary structures must be equipped with double self-closing doors.

(2) Any vents or openings in the pest-exclusionary structures (other than the double self-closing doors) must be covered with 1.6 mm or smaller screening in order to prevent the entry of pests into the pest-exclusionary structures.

(3) The pest-exclusionary structures must be inspected monthly throughout the growing season (March through November) by the NPPO of the Republic of Korea or its approved designee to ensure that phytosanitary procedures are employed to exclude plant pests and diseases and to verify that the screening is intact.

(b) *Trapping for Bactrocera depressa.* Trapping for *B. depressa* is required both inside and outside the pest-exclusionary structures. Trapping must begin at least 2 months prior to the start of harvest and continue until the end of harvest.

(1) *Inside the pest-exclusionary structures.* APHIS-approved traps with an APHIS-approved protein bait must be placed inside the pest-exclusionary structures at a density of at least two traps per pest-exclusionary structure. The traps must be serviced at least once per week. If a single *B. depressa* is captured in a trap inside a pest-exclusionary structure, the NPPO of the Republic of Korea will immediately prohibit that pest-exclusionary structure from exporting tomatoes to the United States and notify APHIS of the action. The prohibition will remain in effect until the NPPO of the Republic of Korea and APHIS agree that the risk has been mitigated.

(2) *Outside the pest-exclusionary structures.* APHIS-approved traps with an approved protein bait must be placed in a 500-meter-wide buffer area around the registered pest-exclusionary structure at a density of one trap per 10 hectares. During the months of March through November, at least one trap must be placed in the buffer area near each pest-exclusionary structure. The traps must be serviced at least once per week. If three *B. depressa* are found inside the buffer zone within 2 kilometers of each other within a 30-day period, the NPPO of the Republic of Korea will immediately prohibit all registered pest-exclusionary structures within 2 kilometers of the finds from exporting tomatoes to the United States and notify APHIS of the action. The prohibition will remain in effect until the NPPO of the Republic of Korea and APHIS agree that the risk has been mitigated.

(3) Records of trap placement, trap servicing, and fruit fly captures for each pest-exclusionary structure must be kept for at least 1 year and trapping records provided to the NPPO of the Republic of Korea each month. The NPPO of the Republic of Korea must make the records available to APHIS for review upon request.

(c) *Packinghouse procedures.* The tomatoes must be packed within 24 hours of harvest in a pest-exclusionary packinghouse. During the time the packinghouse is in use for exporting tomatoes to the United States, the packinghouse may only accept tomatoes from registered pest-exclusionary structures. A random sample of fruit per lot, as determined by the NPPO of the Republic of Korea and agreed to by APHIS, must be inspected for external pests and the fruit must be cut to reveal internal pests. Each sample must be of sufficient size in order to detect pest infestations. Any damaged, diseased, or infested fruit should be removed and separated from the commodity destined for export. The tomatoes must be safeguarded by an insect-proof mesh, screen, or plastic tarpaulin while in transit from the production site to the packinghouse and while awaiting packing. The tomatoes must be packed in insect-proof cartons or containers, or covered with insect-proof mesh or plastic tarpaulin, for transit to the United States. These safeguards must remain intact until the arrival of the tomatoes in the United States or the consignment will not be allowed to enter the United States.

(d) *Commercial consignments.* Tomatoes with stems from the Republic of Korea may be imported in commercial consignments only.

(e) *Phytosanitary certificate.* Each consignment of tomatoes must be accompanied by a phytosanitary certificate of inspection issued by the NPPO of the Republic of Korea bearing the following additional declaration: “Tomatoes in this consignment were grown in pest-exclusionary structures in accordance with 7 CFR 319.56-52 and were inspected and found free from *Bactrocera depressa,**Heliocoverpa armigera,**Heliocoverpa assulta,**Mamestra brassicae,**Ostrinia furnacalis,**Scirtothrips dorsalis,* and *Thrips palmi.”*

(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0579-0371)[76 FR 63150, Oct. 12, 2011]