##### § 412.87 Additional payment for new medical services and technologies: General provisions. #####

(a) *Basis.* Sections 412.87 and 412.88 implement sections 1886(d)(5)(K) and 1886(d)(5)(L) of the Act, which authorize the Secretary to establish a mechanism to recognize the costs of new medical services and technologies under the hospital inpatient prospective payment system.

(b) *Eligibility criteria.* For discharges occurring on or after October 1, 2001, CMS provides for additional payments (as specified in § 412.88) beyond the standard DRG payments and outlier payments to a hospital for discharges involving covered inpatient hospital services that are new medical services and technologies, if the following conditions are met:

(1) A new medical service or technology represents an advance that substantially improves, relative to technologies previously available, the diagnosis or treatment of Medicare beneficiaries.

(2) A medical service or technology may be considered new within 2 or 3 years after the point at which data begin to become available reflecting the inpatient hospital code (as defined in section 1886(d)(5)(K)(iii) of the Social Security Act) assigned to the new service or technology (depending on when a new code is assigned and data on the new service or technology become available for DRG recalibration). After CMS has recalibrated the DRGs, based on available data, to reflect the costs of an otherwise new medical service or technology, the medical service or technology will no longer be considered “new” under the criterion of this section.

(3) The DRG prospective payment rate otherwise applicable to discharges involving the medical service or technology is determined to be inadequate, based on application of a threshold amount to estimated charges incurred with respect to such discharges. To determine whether the payment would be adequate, CMS will determine whether the charges of the cases involving a new medical service or technology will exceed a threshold amount that is the lesser of 75 percent of the standardized amount (increased to reflect the difference between cost and charges) or 75 percent of one standard deviation beyond the geometric mean standardized charge for all cases in the DRG to which the new medical service or technology is assigned (or the case-weighted average of all relevant DRGs if the new medical service or technology occurs in many different DRGs). Standardized charges reflect the actual charges of a case adjusted by the prospective payment system payment factors applicable to an individual hospital, such as the wage index, the indirect medical education adjustment factor, and the disproportionate share adjustment factor.

(c) *Announcement of determinations and deadline for consideration of new medical service or technology applications.* CMS will consider whether a new medical service or technology meets the eligibility criteria specified in paragraph (b) of this section and announce the results in the Federal Register as part of its annual updates and changes to the IPPS. CMS will only consider, for add-on payments for a particular fiscal year, an application for which the new medical service or technology has received FDA approval or clearance by July 1 prior to the particular fiscal year.

[66 FR 46924, Sept. 7, 2001, as amended at 68 FR 45469, Aug. 1, 2003; 69 FR 49243, Aug. 11, 2004; 73 FR 48755, Aug. 19, 2008; 74 FR 43997, Aug. 27, 2009; 82 FR 38511, Aug. 14, 2017]