cfr/title-39-Postal-Service/chapter-I-United-States-Postal-Service/subchapter-G-Postage-Programs/part-551-Semipostal-Stamp-Program/section-551.3.md, before:

##### § 551.3 Procedure for selection of causes and recipient executive agencies. #####

Link to an amendment published at 85 FR 55193, Sept. 4, 2020.

The Postal Service has discretionary authority to select causes and recipient executive agencies to receive funds raised through the sale of semipostal stamps. These regulations apply only to such discretionary semipostal stamps and do not apply to semipostal stamps that are mandated by Act of Congress, such as the *Breast Cancer Research* stamp. The procedure for selection of causes and recipient executive agencies is as follows:

(a) The Office of Stamp Services will accept proposals from interested persons for future semipostal stamps beginning on May 20, 2016. The Office of Stamp Services will begin considering proposals on July 5, 2016. The Postal Service intends to issue five semipostal stamps under these regulations during the 10-year period established by Congress in 39 U.S.C. 416(g). Each semipostal stamp will be sold for no more than two years. Proposals may be submitted and will be considered on a rolling basis until seven years after May 20, 2016. The Office of Stamp Services may publicize this request for proposals in the Federal Register or through other means, as it determines in its discretion. Proposals for semipostal stamps made prior to May 20, 2016 will not be given further consideration. Nothing in these regulations should be construed as barring the resubmission of previously submitted causes and recipient executive agencies.

(b) Proposals will be received by the Office of Stamp Services, which will review each proposal under § 551.4.

(c) The Office of Stamp Services will forward those proposals that satisfy the requirements of § 551.4 to the Citizens' Stamp Advisory Committee for its consideration.

(d) Based on the proposals received from the Office of Stamp Services, the Citizens' Stamp Advisory Committee may make recommendations on causes and eligible recipient executive agencies to the postmaster general. The Citizens' Stamp Advisory Committee may recommend more than one cause and eligible recipient executive agency at the same time.

(e) Meetings of the Citizens' Stamp Advisory Committee are closed, and deliberations of the Citizens' Stamp Advisory Committee are pre-decisional in nature.

(f) In making decisions concerning semipostal stamps, the postmaster general may take into consideration such factors, including the recommendations of the Citizens' Stamp Advisory Committee, as the postmaster general determines are appropriate. The decision of the postmaster general shall be the final agency decision.

(g) The Office of Stamp Services will notify each executive agency in writing of a decision designating that agency as a recipient of funds from a semipostal stamp.

(h) As either a separate matter, or in combination with recommendations on a cause and recipient executive agencies, the Citizens' Stamp Advisory Committee may recommend to the postmaster general a design (*i.e.,* artwork) for the semipostal stamp. The postmaster general will make a final decision on the design to be featured.

(i) The decision of the postmaster general to exercise the Postal Service's discretionary authority to issue a semipostal stamp is final and not subject to challenge or review.

[81 FR 23163, Apr. 20, 2016]

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2020-10-05 issue
Title: 7: Agriculture - Sections changed: 1
Title: 9: Animals and Animal Products - Sections changed: 34
Title: 15: Commerce and Foreign Trade - Sections changed: 4
Title: 16: Commercial Practices - Sections changed: 1
Title: 34: Education - Sections changed: 2
Title: 10: Energy - Sections changed: 1
Title: 48: Federal Acquisition Regulations System - Sections changed: 6
Title: 31: Money and Finance: Treasury - Sections changed: 1
Title: 39: Postal Service - Sections changed: 2
Title: 40: Protection of Environment - Sections changed: 3

cfr/title-39-Postal-Service/chapter-I-United-States-Postal-Service/subchapter-G-Postage-Programs/part-551-Semipostal-Stamp-Program/section-551.3.md, after:

##### § 551.3 Procedure for selection of causes and recipient executive agencies. #####

The Postal Service has discretionary authority to select causes and recipient executive agencies to receive funds raised through the sale of semipostal stamps. These regulations apply only to such discretionary semipostal stamps and do not apply to semipostal stamps that are mandated by Act of Congress, such as the *Breast Cancer Research* stamp. The procedure for selection of causes and recipient executive agencies is as follows:

(a) The Office of Stamp Services will accept proposals from interested persons for future semipostal stamps beginning on May 20, 2016. The Office of Stamp Services will begin considering proposals on July 5, 2016. This section should not be read to reflect the intention of the Postal Service to issue any particular number of semipostal stamps during the 10-year period of this part. Proposals may be submitted and will be considered on a rolling basis until seven years after May 20, 2016. The Office of Stamp Services may publicize this request for proposals in the Federal Register or through other means, as it determines in its discretion. Proposals for semipostal stamps made prior to May 20, 2016 will not be given further consideration. Nothing in this section should be construed as barring the resubmission of previously submitted causes and recipient executive agencies.

(b) Proposals will be received by the Office of Stamp Services, which will review each proposal under § 551.4.

(c) The Office of Stamp Services will forward those proposals that satisfy the requirements of § 551.4 to the Citizens' Stamp Advisory Committee for its consideration.

(d) Based on the proposals received from the Office of Stamp Services, the Citizens' Stamp Advisory Committee may make recommendations on causes and eligible recipient executive agencies to the postmaster general. The Citizens' Stamp Advisory Committee may recommend more than one cause and eligible recipient executive agency at the same time.

(e) Meetings of the Citizens' Stamp Advisory Committee are closed, and deliberations of the Citizens' Stamp Advisory Committee are pre-decisional in nature.

(f) In making decisions concerning semipostal stamps, the postmaster general may take into consideration such factors, including the recommendations of the Citizens' Stamp Advisory Committee, as the postmaster general determines are appropriate. The decision of the postmaster general shall be the final agency decision.

(g) The Office of Stamp Services will notify each executive agency in writing of a decision designating that agency as a recipient of funds from a semipostal stamp.

(h) As either a separate matter, or in combination with recommendations on a cause and recipient executive agencies, the Citizens' Stamp Advisory Committee may recommend to the postmaster general a design (*i.e.,* artwork) for the semipostal stamp. The postmaster general will make a final decision on the design to be featured.

(i) The decision of the postmaster general to exercise the Postal Service's discretionary authority to issue a semipostal stamp is final and not subject to challenge or review.

[81 FR 23163, Apr. 20, 2016, as amended at 85 FR 55193, Sept. 4, 2020]
