##### § 1.1441-1T Requirement for the deduction and withholding of tax on payments to foreign persons (temporary). #####

(a) through (b)(7)(ii)(A) [Reserved]. For further guidance, see § 1.1441-1(a) through (b)(7)(ii)(A).

(B) *Special rules for establishing that income is effectively connected with the conduct of a U.S. trade or business.* A withholding certificate received after the date of payment to claim under § 1.1441-4(a)(1) that income is effectively connected with the conduct of a U.S. trade or business will be considered effective as of the date of the payment if the certificate contains a signed affidavit (either at the bottom of the form or on an attached page) that states that the information and representations contained on the certificate were accurate as of the time of the payment. The signed affidavit must also state that the beneficial owner has included the income on its U.S. income tax return for the taxable year in which it is required to report the income or, alternatively, that the beneficial owner intends to include the income on a U.S. income tax return for the taxable year in which it is required to report the income and the due date for filing such return (including any applicable extensions) is after the date on which the affidavit is signed. A certificate received within 30 days after the date of the payment will not be considered to be unreliable solely because it does not contain the affidavit described in the preceding sentences.

(b)(7)(iii) through (c)(2)(i) [Reserved]. For further guidance, see § 1.1441-1(b)(7)(iii) through (c)(2)(i).

(ii) *Dual residents.* Individuals will not be treated as U.S. persons for purposes of this section for a taxable year or any portion of a taxable year for which they are a dual resident taxpayer (within the meaning of § 301.7701(b)-7(a)(1) of this chapter) who is treated as a nonresident alien pursuant to § 301.7701(b)-7(a)(1) of this chapter for purposes of computing their U.S. tax liability.

(c)(3) through (c)(3)(i) [Reserved]. For further guidance, see § 1.1441-1(c)(3) through (c)(3)(i).

(ii) *Nonresident alien individual.* The term *nonresident alien individual* means persons described in section 7701(b)(1)(B), alien individuals who are treated as nonresident aliens pursuant to § 301.7701(b)-7 of this chapter for purposes of computing their U.S. tax liability, or an alien individual who is a resident of Puerto Rico, Guam, the Commonwealth of Northern Mariana Islands, the U.S. Virgin Islands, or American Samoa as determined under § 301.7701(b)-1(d) of this chapter. An alien individual who has made an election under section 6013(g) or (h) to be treated as a resident of the United States is nevertheless treated as a nonresident alien individual for purposes of withholding under chapter 3 of the Code and the regulations thereunder.

(c)(4) through (c)(38)(i) [Reserved]. For further guidance, see § 1.1441-1(c)(4) through (c)(38)(i).

(ii) *Hold mail instruction.* Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (i) of this section, an address that is subject to a hold mail instruction can be used as a permanent residence address if the person has also provided the withholding agent with documentary evidence establishing residence in the country in which the person claims to be a resident for tax purposes. If, after a withholding certificate is provided, a person's permanent residence address is subsequently subject to a hold mail instruction, this is a change in circumstances requiring the person to provide the documentary evidence described in this paragraph (c)(38)(ii) in order to use the address as a permanent residence address.

(c)(39) through (e)(2)(ii)(A) [Reserved]. For further guidance, see § 1.1441-1(c)(39) through (e)(2)(ii)(A).

(B) *Requirement to collect foreign TIN and date of birth beginning January 1, 2017.* Beginning January 1, 2017, a beneficial owner withholding certificate provided to document an account that is maintained at a U.S. branch or office of a financial institution is required to contain the account holder's foreign TIN and, in the case of an individual account holder, the account holder's date of birth in order for the withholding agent to treat such withholding certificate as valid under paragraph (e)(2) of this section. For withholding certificates associated with payments made on or after January 1, 2018, if an account holder does not have a foreign TIN, the account holder is required to provide a reasonable explanation for its absence (*e.g.,* the country of residence does not provide TINs) in order for the withholding certificate not to be considered invalid as a result of the application of this paragraph (e)(2)(ii)(B). A withholding certificate that does not contain the account holder's date of birth will not be considered invalid as a result of the application of this paragraph (e)(2)(ii)(B) if the withholding agent has the account holder's date of birth information in its files.

(e)(3) through (e)(3)(iv)(C)(*2*) [Reserved]. For further guidance, see § 1.1441-1(e)(3) through (e)(3)(iv)(C)(*2*).

(*3*) *Alternative withholding statement.* In lieu of a withholding statement containing all of the information described in paragraph (e)(3)(iv)(C)(*1*) of this section, a withholding agent may accept from a nonqualified intermediary a withholding statement that meets all of the requirements of this paragraph (e)(3)(iv)(C)(*3*) with respect to a payment. This alternative withholding statement may only be provided by a nonqualified intermediary that provides the withholding agent with the withholding certificates from the beneficial owners (*i.e.,* not documentary evidence) before the payment is made.

(*i*) The withholding statement is not required to contain information that is also included on a withholding certificate (*e.g.,* name, address, TIN (if any), chapter 4 status, GIIN (if any)). The withholding statement is also not required to specify the rate of withholding to which each foreign payee is subject, provided that all of the information necessary to make such determination is provided on the withholding certificate. A withholding agent that uses an alternative withholding statement may not apply a different rate from that which the withholding agent may reasonably conclude from the information on the withholding certificate.

(*ii*) The withholding statement must allocate the payment to every payee required to be reported as described in paragraph (e)(3)(iv)(C)(*1*)(*ii*) of this section.

(*iii*) The withholding statement must also contain any other information the withholding agent reasonably requests in order to fulfill its obligations under chapters 3, 4, and 61 of the Code, and section 3406.

(*iv*) The withholding statement must contain a representation from the nonqualified intermediary that the information on the withholding certificates is not inconsistent with any other account information the nonqualified intermediary has for the beneficial owners for determining the rate of withholding with respect to each payee.

(e)(3)(iv)(C)(*4*) through (e)(4)(i)(A) [Reserved]. For further guidance, see § 1.1441-1(e)(3)(iv)(C)(*4*) through (e)(4)(i)(A).

(B) *Electronic signatures.* A withholding agent, regardless of whether the withholding agent has established an electronic system pursuant to paragraph (e)(4)(iv)(A) or (e)(4)(iv)(C) of this section, may accept a withholding certificate (other than a Form W-9) with an electronic signature, provided the electronic signature meets the requirements of paragraph (e)(4)(iv)(B)(*3*)(*ii*) of this section. In addition, the withholding certificate must reasonably demonstrate to the withholding agent that the form has been electronically signed by the recipient identified on the form (or a person authorized to sign for the person identified on the form). For example, a withholding agent may treat as validly signed a withholding certificate that has, in the signature block, the name of the person authorized to sign, a time and date stamp, and a statement that the certificate has been electronically signed. However, a withholding agent may not treat a withholding certificate with a typed name in the signature line and no other information as validly signed.

(e)(4)(ii) through (e)(4)(ii)(A)(*1*) [Reserved]. For further guidance, see § 1.1441-1(e)(4)(ii) through (e)(4)(ii)(A)(*1*).

(*2*) *Documentary evidence for treaty claims and treaty statements.* Documentary evidence described in § 1.1441-6(c)(3) or (4) and a statement regarding entitlement to treaty benefits described in § 1.1441-6(c)(5)(i) (treaty statement) shall remain valid until the last day of the third calendar year following the year in which the documentary evidence is provided to the withholding agent except as provided in paragraph (e)(4)(ii)(B) of this section. Notwithstanding the validity period prescribed in this paragraph (e)(4)(ii)(A)(*2*), a treaty statement will cease to be valid if a change in circumstances makes the information on the statement unreliable or incorrect. For accounts opened and treaty statements obtained prior to January 6, 2017, the treaty statement will expire January 1, 2019.

(e)(4)(ii)(B) through (e)(4)(iv)(B)(*4*) [Reserved]. For further guidance, see § 1.1441-1(e)(4)(ii)(B) through (e)(4)(iv)(B)(*4*).

(C) *Form 8233.* A withholding agent may establish a system for a beneficial owner or payee to provide Form 8233 electronically, provided the system meets the requirements of paragraph (e)(4)(iv)(B)(1) through (4) of this section (replacing “Form W-8” with “Form 8233” each place it appears).

(D) [Reserved]. For further guidance, see § 1.1441-1(e)(4)(iv)(D).

(E) *Third party repositories.* A withholding certificate (other than a Form W-9) will be considered furnished for purposes of this section (including paragraph (e)(1)(ii)(A)(*1*) of this section) by the person providing the certificate, and a withholding agent may rely on an otherwise valid withholding certificate received electronically from a third party repository, if the withholding certificate was uploaded or provided to a third party repository and there are processes in place to ensure that the withholding certificate can be reliably associated with a specific request from the withholding agent and a specific authorization from the person providing the certificate (or an agent of the person providing the certificate) for the withholding agent making the request to receive the withholding certificate. Each request and authorization must be associated with a specific payment, and, as applicable, a specific obligation maintained by a withholding agent. A third party repository may also be used for withholding statements, and a withholding agent may also rely on an otherwise valid withholding statement, if the intermediary providing the withholding certificates and withholding statement through the repository provides an updated withholding statement in the event of any change in the information previously provided (*e.g.,* a change in the composition of a partnership or a change in the allocation of payments to the partners) and ensures there are processes in place to update withholding agents when there is a new withholding statement (and withholding certificates, as necessary) in the event of any change that would affect the validity of the prior withholding certificates or withholding statement. A third party repository, for purposes of this paragraph, is an entity that maintains withholding certificates (including certificates accompanied by withholding statements) but is not an agent of the applicable withholding agent or the person providing the certificate. The following examples illustrate the provisions of this paragraph (e)(4)(iv)(E):

Example 1.A, a foreign corporation, completes a Form W-8BEN-E and a Form W-8ECI and uploads the forms to X, a third party repository (X is an entity that maintains withholding certificates on an electronic data aggregation site). WA, a withholding agent, enters into a contract with A under which it will make payments to A of U.S. source FDAP that are not effectively connected with A's conduct of a trade or business in the United States. X is not an agent of WA or A. Prior to receiving a payment, A sends WA an email with a link that authorizes WA to access A's Form W-8BEN-E on X's system. The link does not authorize WA to access A's Form W-8ECI. X's system meets the requirements of a third party repository, and WA can treat the Form W-8BEN-E as furnished by A.Example 2.The facts are the same as *Example 1* of this paragraph (e)(4)(iv)(E), and WA and A enter into a second contract under which WA will make payments to A that are effectively connected with A's conduct of a trade or business in the United States. A sends WA an email with a link that gives WA access to A's Form W-8ECI on X's system. The link in this second email does not give WA access to A's Form W-8BEN-E. A's email also clearly indicates that the link is associated with payments received under the second contract. X's system meets the requirements of a third party repository, and WA can treat the Form W-8ECI as furnished by A.Example 3.FP is a foreign partnership that is acting on behalf of its partners, A and B, who are both foreign individuals. FP completes a Form W-8IMY and uploads it to X, a third party repository. FP also uploads Forms W-8BEN from both A and B and a valid withholding statement allocating 50% of the payment to A and 50% to B. WA is a withholding agent that makes payments to FP as an intermediary for A and B. FP sends WA an email with a link to its Form W-8IMY on X's system. The link also provides WA access to FP's withholding statement and A's and B's Forms W-8BEN. FP also has processes in place that ensure it will provide a new withholding statement or withholding certificate to X's repository in the event of a change in the information previously provided that affects the validity of the withholding statement and that ensure it will update WA if there is a new withholding statement. X's system meets the requirements of a third party repository, and WA can treat the Form W-8IMY (and withholding statement) as furnished by FP. In addition, because FP is acting as an agent of A and B, the beneficial owners, WA can treat the Forms W-8BEN for A and B as furnished by A and B.

(e)(4)(v) through (f)(3) [Reserved]. For further guidance, see § 1.1441-1(e)(4)(v) through (f)(3).

(4) *Effective/applicability date.* This section applies to payments made on or after January 6, 2017.

(g) *Expiration date.* The applicability of this section expires on December 30, 2019.

[T.D. 9808, 82 FR 29725, June 30, 2017]