cfr/title-50-Wildlife-Fisheries/chapter-VI-Fishery-Conservation-Management-National-Oceanic-Atmospheric-Administration-Department-Commerce/part-660-Fisheries-off-West-Coast-States/subpart-I-Coastal-Pelagics-Fisheries/section-660.511.md, before:

##### § 660.511 Catch restrictions. #####

Link to an amendment published at 83 FR 6473, Feb. 14, 2018.

(a) All CPS harvested shoreward of the outer boundary of the EEZ (0-200 nautical miles off shore) will be counted toward the catch limitations specified in this section.

(b) The trip limit for harvesting vessels fishing in the CPS Limited Entry Zone for CPS other than live bait without a limited entry permit is 5 mt tons of all CPS finfish combined.

(c) The trip limit for vessels with a limited entry permit on a fishing trip in which the vessel fishes or lands fish in the Limited Entry Zone is 125 mt of all CPS finfish combined.

(d) After the directed fishery for a CPS is closed under § 660.509, no person may take and retain, possess or land more of that species than the incidental trip limit set by the Regional Administrator.

(e) While fishing for CPS, all species of trout and salmon (*Salmonidae*) and Pacific halibut (*Hippoglossus stenolepis*) are prohibited species and must be released immediately with a minimum of injury.

(f) On July 1, 40 percent of the initial harvest guideline for Pacific sardine is allocated coastwide within the fishery management area.

(g) On September 15, 25 percent of the initial harvest guideline for Pacific sardine plus the remaining unharvested portion of the July 1 allocation in paragraph (f) of this section is allocated coastwide within the fishery management area.

(h) On January 1, 35 percent of the initial harvest guideline for Pacific sardine plus the remaining unharvested portion of the September 15 allocation is allocated coastwide within the fishery management area.

[64 FR 69893, Dec. 15, 1999, as amended at 68 FR 52527, Sept. 4, 2003; 71 FR 37001, June 29, 2006; 79 FR 11344, Feb. 28, 2014]

Commit message:

release(cfr): 2018-03-19 issue
Title: 7: Agriculture - Sections changed: 41
Title: 15: Commerce and Foreign Trade - Sections changed: 4
Title: 16: Commercial Practices - Sections changed: 4
Title: 18: Conservation of Power and Water Resources - Sections changed: 13
Title: 31: Money and Finance: Treasury - Sections changed: 23
Title: 33: Navigation and Navigable Waters - Sections changed: 7
Title: 40: Protection of Environment - Sections changed: 7
Title: 46: Shipping - Sections changed: 8
Title: 47: Telecommunication - Sections changed: 1
Title: 50: Wildlife and Fisheries - Sections changed: 6

cfr/title-50-Wildlife-Fisheries/chapter-VI-Fishery-Conservation-Management-National-Oceanic-Atmospheric-Administration-Department-Commerce/part-660-Fisheries-off-West-Coast-States/subpart-I-Coastal-Pelagics-Fisheries/section-660.511.md, after:

##### § 660.511 Catch restrictions. #####

(a) All CPS harvested shoreward of the outer boundary of the EEZ (0-200 nautical miles off shore) will be counted toward the catch limitations specified in this section.

(b) The trip limit for harvesting vessels fishing in the CPS Limited Entry Zone for CPS other than live bait without a limited entry permit is 5 mt tons of all CPS finfish combined.

(c) The trip limit for vessels with a limited entry permit on a fishing trip in which the vessel fishes or lands fish in the Limited Entry Zone is 125 mt of all CPS finfish combined.

(d) After the directed fishery for a CPS is closed under § 660.509, no person may take and retain, possess or land more of that species than the incidental trip limit set by the Regional Administrator, except the following directed fisheries may continue until the effective date of a Federal Register document published by the Regional Administrator that the annual catch limit has been reached or is projected to be reached:

(1) Fishing exclusively for live bait;

(2) Minor directed fishing for finfish that does not exceed 1 mt per day per vessel or person, and which is limited to 1 fishing trip per day by any vessel.

(e) While fishing for CPS, all species of trout and salmon (*Salmonidae*) and Pacific halibut (*Hippoglossus stenolepis*) are prohibited species and must be released immediately with a minimum of injury.

(f) On July 1, 40 percent of the initial harvest guideline for Pacific sardine is allocated coastwide within the fishery management area.

(g) On September 15, 25 percent of the initial harvest guideline for Pacific sardine plus the remaining unharvested portion of the July 1 allocation in paragraph (f) of this section is allocated coastwide within the fishery management area.

(h) On January 1, 35 percent of the initial harvest guideline for Pacific sardine plus the remaining unharvested portion of the September 15 allocation is allocated coastwide within the fishery management area.

[64 FR 69893, Dec. 15, 1999, as amended at 68 FR 52527, Sept. 4, 2003; 71 FR 37001, June 29, 2006; 79 FR 11344, Feb. 28, 2014; 83 FR 6473, Feb. 14, 2018]
