##### § 1.163-4 Deduction for original issue discount on certain obligations issued after May 27, 1969. #####

(a) *In general.* (1) If an obligation is issued by a corporation with original issue discount, the amount of such discount is deductible as interest and shall be prorated or amortized over the life of the obligation. For purposes of this section the term “obligation” shall have the same meaning as in § 1.1232-1 (without regard to whether the obligation is a capital asset in the hands of the holder) and the term “original issue discount” shall have the same meaning as in section 1232(b)(1) (without regard to the one-fourth of 1 percent limitation in the second sentence thereof). Thus, in general, the amount of original issue discount equals the excess of the amount payable at maturity over the issue price of the bond (as defined in paragraph (b)(2) of § 1.1232-3), regardless of whether that amount is less than one-fourth of 1 percent of the redemption price at maturity multiplied by the number of complete years to maturity. For the rule as to whether there is original issue discount in the case of an obligation issued in an exchange for property other than money, and the amount thereof, see paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of § 1.1232-3. In any case in which original issue discount is carried over from one corporation to another corporation under section 381(c)(9) or from an obligation exchanged to an obligation received in any exchange under paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of § 1.1232-3, such discount shall be carried over for purposes of this section. The amount of original issue discount carried over in an exchange of obligations under the preceding sentence shall be prorated or amortized over the life of the obligation issued in such exchange. For computation of issue price and the amount of original issue discount in the case of serial obligations, see paragraph (b)(2)(iv) of § 1.1232-3.

(2) In the case of an obligation issued by a corporation as part of an investment unit (as defined in paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(*a*) of § 1.1232-3) consisting of an obligation and other property, the issue price of the obligation is determined by allocating the amount received for the investment unit to the individual elements of the unit in the manner set forth in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of § 1.1232-3.

(3) *Recovery or retention of amounts previously deducted.* In any taxable year in which an amount of original issue discount which was deducted as interest under this section is retained or recovered by the taxpayer, such as, for example, by reason of a fine, penalty, forfeiture, or other withdrawal fee, such amount shall be includible in the gross income of such taxpayer for such taxable year.

(b) *Examples.* The rules in paragraph (a) of this section are illustrated by the following examples:

Example 1.N Corporation, which uses the calendar year as its taxable year, on January 1, 1970, issued for $99,000, 9 percent bonds maturing 10 years from the date of issue, with a stated redemption price at maturity of $100,000. The original issue discount on each bond (as determined under section 1232(b)(1) without regard to the one-fourth-of-1-percent limitation in the second sentence thereof) is $1,000, *i.e.*, redemption price, $100,000, minus issue price, $99,000. N shall treat $1,000 as the total amount to be amortized over the life of the bonds.Example 2.Assume the same facts as example (1), except that the bonds are convertible into common stock of N Corporation. Since the issue price of the bonds includes any amount attributable to the conversion privilege, the result is the same as in example (1).Example 3.Assume the same facts as example (1), except that the bonds are issued as part of an investment unit consisting of an obligation and an option. Assume further that the issue price of the bonds as determined under the rules of allocation set forth in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of § 1.1232-3 is $94,000. The original issue discount on the bond (as determined under section 1232(b)(1) without regard to the one-fourth-of-1-percent limitation in the second sentence thereof) is $6,000, *i.e.*, redemption price, $100,000, minus issue price, $94,000. N shall treat $6,000 as the total amount to be amortized over the life of the bonds.Example 4.On January 1, 1971, a commercial bank which uses the calendar year as its taxable year, issued a certificate of deposit for $10,000. The certificate of deposit is not redeemable until December 31, 1975, except in an emergency as defined in, and subject to the qualifications provided by Regulations Q of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve. See 12 CFR § 217.4(d). The stated redemption price at maturity is $13,382.26. The certificate is an obligation to which section 1232(a)(3)(A) applies (see paragraph (d) of § 1.1232-1), and the original issue discount with respect to the certificate (as determined under section 1232(b)(1) without regard to the one-fourth-of-1-percent limitation in the second sentence thereof) is $3,382.26 (*i.e.*, redemption price, $13,382.26, minus issued price, $10,000). Y shall treat $3,382.26 as the total amount to be amortized over the life of the certificate.

(c) *Deduction upon repurchase.* (1) Except as provided in subparagraph (2) of this paragraph, if bonds are issued by a corporation and are subsequently repurchased by the corporation at a price in excess of the issue price plus any amount of original issue discount deducted prior to repurchase, or minus any amount of premium returned as income prior to repurchase, the excess of the repurchase price over the issue price adjusted for amortized premium or deducted discount is deductible as interest for the taxable year.

(2) The provisions of subparagraph (1) of this paragraph shall not apply to the extent a deduction is disallowed by section 249 (relating to limitation on deduction of bond premium or repurchase of convertible obligation) and the regulations thereunder.

(d) *Effective date.* The provisions of this section shall apply in respect of obligations issued after May 27, 1969, other than—

(1) Obligations issued pursuant to a written commitment which was binding on May 27, 1969, and at all times thereafter, and

(2) Deposits made before January 1, 1971, in the case of certificates of deposit, time deposits, bonus plans, and other deposit arrangements with banks, domestic building and loan associations, and similar financial institutions.

[36 FR 24996, Dec. 28, 1971, as amended by T.D. 7213, 37 FR 21991, Oct. 18, 1972; T.D. 7259, 38 FR 4253, Feb. 12, 1973]