##### § 1.168A-5 Adjusted basis of emergency facility. #####

(a) *In general.* (1) The adjusted basis of an emergency facility for the purpose of computing the amortization deduction may differ from what would otherwise constitute the adjusted basis of such emergency facility in that it shall be the adjusted basis for determining gain (see Part II (section 1011 and following), Subchapter 0, Chapter 1 of the Code) and in that it may be only a portion of what would otherwise constitute the adjusted basis. It will be only a portion of such other adjusted basis if only a portion of the basis (unadjusted) is attributable to certified construction, reconstruction, erection, installation, or acquisition taking place after December 31, 1949. Also, it will be only a portion of what would otherwise constitute the adjusted basis of the emergency facility if only a portion of the basis (unadjusted) is certified as attributable to defense purposes or, in the case of a certification after August 22, 1957, if only a portion of the basis (unadjusted) is certified as attributable to the national defense program. It is therefore necessary first to determine the unadjusted basis of the emergency facility from which the adjusted basis for amortization purposes is derived.

(2) The unadjusted basis for amortization purposes is the same as the unadjusted basis otherwise determined only when the entire construction, reconstruction, erection, installation, or acquisition takes place after December 31, 1949, and is certified in its entirety by the certifying authority.

(3) In cases in which only a portion of the construction, reconstruction, erection, installation, or acquisition takes place after December 31, 1949, and that portion is certified in its entirety by the certifying authority, the unadjusted basis for the purpose of amortization is so much of the entire unadjusted basis as is attributable to the certified construction, reconstruction, erection, installation, or acquisition which takes place after December 31, 1949. For example, the X Corporation begins the construction of a facility on November 15, 1949, and such facility is completed on April 1, 1952, at a cost of $5,000,000, of which $4,600,000 is attributable to construction after December 31, 1949. The entire construction after December 31, 1949, is certified by the certifying authority. The unadjusted basis of the emergency facility for amortization purposes is therefore $4,600,000. For depreciation of the remaining portion ($400,000) of the cost see § 1.168A-6.

(4) If the certifying authority certifies only a portion of the construction, reconstruction, erection, installation, or acquisition of property which takes place after December 31, 1949, the unadjusted basis for amortization purposes is limited to such portion so certified. Assuming the same facts as in the example in subparagraph (3) of this paragraph, except that only 50 percent of the construction, reconstruction, erection, installation, or acquisition after December 31, 1949, is certified, the unadjusted basis for amortization purposes is 50 percent of $4,600,000, or $2,300,000.

(5) The adjusted basis of an emergency facility for amortization purposes is the unadjusted basis for amortization purposes less the adjustments properly applicable thereto. Such adjustments are those specified in sections 1016 and 1017, except that no adjustments are to be taken into account which increase the adjusted basis. (See paragraph (b) of this section.) If the taxpayer constructs, reconstructs, erects, installs, or acquires an emergency facility pursuant to a cost reimbursement contract with an obligation for reimbursement by the United States of all or a part of the cost of such facility, the unadjusted basis of such facility for amortization purposes shall not include that part of the cost for which the taxpayer is entitled to reimbursement, and the amount received as reimbursement shall be treated as a capital receipt. However, amounts received by a taxpayer which represent in fact compensation by reason of termination of a government contract or payment for articles under such a contract, though denominated reimbursements for all or a part of the cost of an emergency facility, are not to be treated as capital receipts but are to be taken into account in computing income, and are therefore not to be applied in reduction of the basis of such facility.

(6) The following examples will illustrate the computation of the adjusted basis of an emergency facility for amortization purposes:

Example 1.The X Corporation completes an emergency facility on July 1, 1954, the entire unadjusted basis of which is $500,000, and the unadjusted basis of which for the purpose of amortization is $300,000. The X Corporation elects to begin amortization as of January 1, 1955. The only adjustment to basis for the period July 1, 1954, to January 31, 1955, other than depreciation or amortization for January 1955, is $5,000 for depreciation for the last six months of 1954. The adjusted basis for the purpose of amortization is therefore $300,000 less $3,000 (300,000/500,000 × $5,000), or $297,000.Example 2.On July 31, 1956, the Y Corporation has an emergency facility (a building) which was completed on July 1, 1952, the entire basis of which is $500,000 and the unadjusted basis of which for the purpose of amortization is $300,000. The corporation elected to begin amortization as of January 1, 1953, at which time it was entitled to $5,000 depreciation for the last six months of 1952. On July 1, 1956, the facility was damaged by fire, as the result of which its adjusted basis is properly reduced by $200,000. The adjusted basis of the emergency facility as of July 1956 for the purpose of amortization and depreciation, and the adjusted basis for other purposes, are $23,849.18, $49,250.82, and $73,100.00, respectively, computed as follows:

|                                               |For amortization|For depreciation|For other purposes|
|-----------------------------------------------|----------------|----------------|------------------|
|               Unadjusted basis                |  $300,000.00   |  $200,000.00   |     $500,000     |
|       Less depreciation to Jan. 1, 1953       |    3,000.00    |    2,000.00    |      5,000       |
|          Adjusted basis January 1953          |   297,000.00   |   198,000.00   |     495,000      |
|        Less amortization for 42 months        |   207,900.00   |                |     207,900      |
|        Less depreciation for 42 months        |                |   14,000.00    |      14,000      |
|        Adjusted basis at time of fire         |   89,100.00    |   184,000.00   |     273,100      |
|Less fire loss (apportioned as explained below)|   65,250.82    |   134,749.18   |     200,000      |
|        Adjusted basis after fire loss         |   23,849.18    |   49,250.82    |      73,100      |

The $200,000 fire loss is applied against the adjusted basis for the purpose of amortization and the adjusted basis for the purpose of depreciation in the proportion that each such adjusted basis at the time of the fire bears to their sum, *i.e.*, 89,100/273,100 × $200,000 or $65,250.82, against the amortization basis, and 184,000/273,100 × $200,000, or $134,749.18 against the depreciation basis.

(b) *Capital additions.* (1) If, after the completion or acquisition of an emergency facility which has been certified by the certifying authority, further expenditures are made for construction, reconstruction, erection, installation, or acquisition attributable to such facility but not covered by such certification, such expenditures shall not be added to the adjusted basis of the emergency facility for amortization purposes under such certification. If such further expenditures are separately certified in accordance with the provisions of section 168(e) (1) or (2) and this section, they are treated as certified expenditures in connection with a new and separate emergency facility and, if proper election is made, will be taken into account in computing the adjusted basis of such new and separate emergency facility for the purpose of amortization.

(2) The application of subparagraph (1) of this paragraph may be illustrated by the following example:

Example.On March 1, 1954, the certifying authority certifies as an emergency facility a heating plant proposed to be constructed by the Z Corporation. Such facility is completed on July 1, 1954. The Z Corporation, on August 1, 1954, begins the installation in the plant of an additional boiler, which is not included in the certification for the plant but is certified as a new and separate emergency facility. For amortization purposes, the adjusted basis of the heating plant is determined without including the cost of the additional boiler. Such cost is taken into account in computing the adjusted basis of the new and separate emergency facility (the boiler), as to which the taxpayer has a separate election for amortization purposes and a separate amortization period.[T.D. 6500, 25 FR 11402, Nov. 26, 1960; 25 FR 14021, Dec. 21, 1960. Redesignated and amended by T.D. 8116, 51 FR 46619, Dec. 24, 1986]