##### ยง 54.5 Availability of service. #####

Service under these regulations may be made available with respect to products shipped or received in interstate commerce, and with respect to the products not so shipped or received if the Director or Chief determines that the furnishing of service for such products would facilitate the marketing, distribution, processing, or utilization of agricultural products through commercial channels. Also, such service may be made available under a cooperative agreement. Service under these regulations shall be provided without discrimination as to race, color, sex, creed, or national origin. Service will be furnished for products only if they were derived from animals slaughtered in federally inspected establishments or operated under State meat inspection in a State other than one designated in 9 CFR 331.2. Service under these regulations will be furnished for imported meat only if it is marked so that the name of the country of origin appears on most of the major retail cuts. The mark of foreign origin shall be imprinted by roller brand or handstamp and shall be applied so that the imprint is at least 2 inches from the backbone of lamb, 3 inches from the backbone of veal and calf, and 4 inches from the backbone of beef carcasses. The mark of foreign origin shall be repeated parallel to the backbone of the carcass so as to appear on each round, rump, full loin, rib, and chuck of each bovine and ovine carcass in letters at least one-fourth of an inch high, with no more than three-fourths of an inch space between impressions. Imprints of each such brand shall be submitted to the Chief for the determination of compliance with these regulations prior to use of the brand on meats offered for Federal grading. It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to notify the meat grade performing the service whenever imported meat is offered for grading.