##### § 644.376 Procedure for disposal of public domain land. #####

(a) Lands withdrawn or reserved from the public domain, together with Government-owned improvements, which have been determined to be excess to the department, after screening with other DOD agencies and the U.S. Coast Guard in accordance with §§ 644.333 through 644.339, will be processed for disposal in accordance with 43 CFR 2370-2374 and § 644.381 of this part. The DE will file a Notice of Intention to Relinquish as provided by 43 CFR 2372.1. The notice will be filed in the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) Land Office having jurisdiction.

Excess buildings and improvements on the property should be left in place and no disposal action taken thereon pending further instructions from BLM, unless it is determined that they should be abandoned in accordance with the procedures set forth in §§ 644.472 through 644.500. A copy of the Notice of Intention to Relinquish submitted to the appropriate BLM Land Office will be transmitted to HQDA (DAEN-REM) Washington, DC 20314 and to the appropriate GSA regional office.

(b) If any restoration, or other work, is proposed to be performed on the land, the matter will be forwarded to DAEN-REM for prior approval. Where the DE recommends disposition of the land by GSA as excess property rather than return to the public domain, no restoration of the property will be proposed (see 43 CFR 2372.1). Generally, lands which are unimproved, or contain only minor improvements, will be recommended for return to the public domain. Exception to this procedure should be made where development surrounding, or in the vicinity of the land, has changed its character, although the land itself has not been improved. Another exception would be the situation described in § 644.350(d). Generally lands which are extensively improved will be recommended to BLM for disposal as excess property.

(c) If the authorized officer of BLM determines, pursuant to 43 CFR 2372.3, that the conditions prescribed by that regulation have been met and that the land is suitable for return to the public domain, he will notify the DE, as the representative of the holding agency, that the Department of the Interior accepts accountability and responsibility for the property. A copy of this notification will be furnished to HQDA (DAEN-REP) Washington, DC 20314.

(d) If the authorized officer of BLM determines, pursuant to 43 CFR 2374.1, that the land is not suitable for return to the public domain because it is substantially changed in character, and GSA concurs in this determination, he will notify the DE to report the land and improvements, with or without minerals, to GSA as excess property. Upon receipt of this notice, the DE will advise DAEN-REP and report the property to GSA on SF 118, Report of Excess Real Property, including the information on claims and encumbrances furnished by BLM under 43 CFR 2374.1 (c). The holding agency has the same responsibility for care, custody, and accountability of excess public domain as for other property reported to GSA for disposal.