##### § 644.378 Cancellation of permits. #####

(a) Land obtained by permit, or some other form of instrument, from another Federal agency on a temporary basis which has not been substantially improved while being utilized by the Department, when determined to be excess in accordance with the procedure set forth in §§ 644.326 through 644.332, will be returned to the Federal agency from which it was obtained.

(b) When it is determined by the DE that land obtained by permit, or other form of instrument, from another Federal agency on a temporary basis has been substantially improved while being utilized by the Department, the DE will request DAEN-REM to determine whether the land is excess, or is expected to become excess, to the requirements of the agency from which it was obtained.

(1) If the agency from which the land was obtained advises that the land is excess, or is expected to become excess, to its requirements, the improvements will be reported to GSA on SF 118 in accordance with the procedure described in §§ 644.348 through 644.347, with a statement that the agency from which the land was obtained has advised that the land is excess, or is expected to become excess to its requirements, and that the agency will be or has been requested to reassume administrative control over the land. Coincident with the report of excess, action will be initiated to return the land to the agency from which it was obtained.

(2) If the agency from which the land was obtained advises that the land is not excess, and is not expected to become excess to its requirements, improvements constructed thereon while the property was being utilized by the Department will be disposed of in accordance with the provisions of § 644.381. Where the improvements are substantial, and cannot be utilized effectively by the agency from which the land was obtained, and it appears that the best interests of the Government may not be served by disposal of the improvements for removal from the site, a report, with recommendations, should be forwarded to DAEN-REM for a determination whether the permit and improvements should be reported to GSA for disposal, or whether other action would be appropriate.

(c) The Chief of Engineers, or his duly authorized representatives, will execute and deliver necessary papers effecting the relinquishment of permits and the transfer of real property to other Federal agencies when the installations to which such real property or permits pertain have been determined to be excess. However, where permits were obtained at local level, DEs will effect relinquishment in the same manner. Unless otherwise instructed, no action will be taken by the DE to restore or return the lands pertaining to an industrial installation to the agency which granted the permit. DEs will, however, submit the report required in § 644.379.

(d) Where an installation embraces lands acquired in fee by a military department and lands acquired for temporary use from other departments or agencies, and if return of the latter type of lands to the department or agency which granted the permit would destroy the integrity of the installation or affect its ultimate disposal as a unit, a report will be made to DAEN-REM with recommendations that they will provide disposition instructions.