##### ยง 644.370 Transfer of custody to General Services Administration (GSA). #####

(a) Custody of an excess installation reported to the GSA for disposal will continue to be held until GSA transfers to its purchaser or other designee. All expenses pertaining to care, custody and maintenance will be borne by the holding department or agency, except that such expense for property reported to GSA for disposal and not disposed of within 12 months from the date the formal report of excess was received by GSA, shall be assumed by GSA as of the first day of the succeeding quarter of the fiscal year. GSA will give notice of the receipt of the report of excess and will, within 15 days, furnish advice on the acceptability of the report. (See FPMR as amended, Subsection 101-47.202-10.) Any request made to the disposal agency to defer disposal action, or failure to submit an acceptable report, will extend the obligation of the department with respect to expenses for care and custody caused by such deferment. In the event the department is not relieved of custody within the period for which it is obligated to stand the expense thereof, the retention of care and custody thereafter will be reimbursed by the disposal agency. Because of the magnitude of custodial expense for larger installations and the longer periods of time often consumed in effecting their disposal, it is imperative that reports of excess be made as promptly as possible in order that the 12-month period may commence and terminate as soon as possible and the department's expense minimized.

(b) The DE will maintain close liaison with GSA with a view to obtaining prompt transfer of custody and accountability from the department to that agency, and will coordinate transfers between the using service and GSA. However, DEs will not take over custody of an installation or coordinate the transfer of custody until a statement of clearance or a statement that such clearance is not necessary because of the use of the installation has been furnished. Under GSA procedures, the department generally retains the responsibility for care, custody, and accountability of its excess facilities until final disposition is made by GSA. Until that time, the property is to be carried on the real property inventory of the department.