##### ยง 644.372 Care and custody through interim use. #####

(a) *General.* Upon receipt of initial information that real property is excess, the DE should promptly initiate planning for interim productive use. Interim use should be planned to save care and custody expense but must not interfere with, delay, or retard transfer of the property to another Federal agency or its disposal otherwise. Any permit or lease must have the prior approval of GSA, and shall be for a period not exceeding one year and shall be revocable on 30 days' notice (FPMR Sections 101-47.203-9 and 101-47.312).

(b) *Permits to other Federal agencies.* Interested Federal agencies will be afforded a priority in the interim use of excess and surplus real property. The permit will require the Federal agency to perform care and custody and perform routine maintenance. 41 CFR 101-47.203-8, provides for temporary assignment, conditional transfers, and rental or user charges for use of excess property by Federal agencies.

(c) *Leases for non-Federal use.* Leases of excess and surplus property are made under authority of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, as amended and AR 405-80. Such leases are subject to the Economy Act (40 U.S.C. 303b), and must be for a money consideration only. The lessee can and should, however, be made responsible for ordinary maintenance and restoration as required by standard Corps of Engineers lease forms. Where a portion of an excess or surplus installation is leased, it may be advantageous to enter into an agreement with the lessee for care and custody of the remainder. The agreement cannot provide for a reduction of rental for the portion leased. The Economy Act may not apply in some cases where industrial plants are determined excess subject to the National Security Clause or similar recapture conditions. Such cases should be coordinated with DAEN-REM on an individual basis.