##### § 2551.12 Definitions. #####

(a) *Act.* The Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973, as amended, Pub. L. 93-113, Oct. 1, 1973, 87 Stat. 396, 42 U.S.C. 4950 *et seq.*

(b) *Adult with special needs.* Any individual over 21 years of age who has one or more physical, emotional, or mental health limitations and is in need of assistance to achieve and maintain their highest level of independent living.

(c) *Adequate staffing level.* The number of project staff or full-time equivalent needed by a sponsor to manage NSSC project operations considering such factors as: number of budgeted Volunteer Service Years (VSY), number of volunteer stations, and the size of the service area.

(d) *Annual income.* Total cash and in-kind receipts from all sources over the preceding 12 months including: the applicant or enrollee's income and, the applicant or enrollee's spouse's income, if the spouse lives in the same residence. The value of shelter, food, and clothing, shall be counted if provided at no cost by persons related to the applicant/enrollee, or spouse.

(e) *Chief Executive Officer.* The Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation appointed under the National and Community Service Act of 1990, as amended, (NCSA), 42 U.S.C. 12501 *et seq.*

(f) *Corporation.* The Corporation for National and Community Service established under the Trust Act. The Corporation is also sometimes referred to as CNCS.

(g) *Cost reimbursements.* Reimbursements provided to volunteers such as stipends to cover incidental costs, meals, and transportation, to enable them to serve without cost to themselves. Also included are the costs of annual physical examinations, volunteer insurance and recognition which are budgeted as Volunteer Expenses.

(h) *In-home.* The non-institutional assignment of a Senior Companion in a private residence.

(i) *Letter of Agreement.* A written agreement between a volunteer station, the sponsor and the adult served or the persons legally responsible for that adult. It authorizes the assignment of a Senior Companion in the clients home, defines the Senior Companion's activities and delineates specific arrangements for supervision.

(j) *Memorandum of Understanding.* A written statement prepared and signed by the Senior Companion project sponsor and the volunteer station that identifies project requirements, working relationships and mutual responsibilities.

(k) *National Senior Service Corps (NSSC).* The collective name for the Foster Grandparent Program (FGP), the Retired and Senior Volunteer Program (RSVP), the Senior Companion Program (SCP), and Demonstration Programs established under Title II Parts A, B, C, and E, of the Act. NSSC is also referred to as the “Senior Corps”.

(l) *Non-Corporation support (required).* The percentage share of non-Federal cash and in-kind contributions, required to be raised by the sponsor in support of the grant.

(m) *Non-Corporation support (excess).* The amount of non-Federal cash and in-kind contributions generated by a sponsor in excess of the required percentage.

(n) *Project.* The locally planned and implemented Senior Companion Program activity or set of activities as agreed upon between a sponsor and the Corporation.

(o) *Qualified individual with a disability.* An individual with a disability (as defined in the Rehabilitation Act, 29 U.S.C. 705 (20)) who, with or without reasonable accommodation, can perform the essential functions of a volunteer position that such individual holds or desires. If a sponsor has prepared a written description before advertising or interviewing applicants for the position, the written description may be considered evidence of the essential functions of the volunteer position.

(p) *Service area.* The geographically defined area in which Senior Companions are recruited, enrolled, and placed on assignments.

(q) *Service schedule.* A written delineation of the days and times a Senior Companion serves each week.

(r) Sponsor. A public agency or private non-profit organization, either secular or faith-based, that is responsible for the operation of a Senior Companion project.

(s) *Stipend.* A payment to Senior Companions to enable them to serve without cost to themselves. The amount of the stipend is determined by the Corporation and is payable in regular installments. The minimum amount of the stipend is set by law and shall be adjusted by the CEO from time to time.

(t) *Trust Act.* The National and Community Service Trust Act of 1993, Pub. L. 103-82, Sept. 21, 1993, 107 Stat. 785.

(u) *United States and States.* Each of the several States, the District of Columbia, the U.S. Virgin Islands, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam and American Samoa, and Trust Territories of the Pacific Islands.

(v) *Volunteer assignment plan.* A written description of a Senior Companion's assignment with a client. The plan identifies specific outcomes for the client served and the activities of the Senior Companion.

(w) Volunteer station. A public agency, secular or faith-based private non-profit organization, or proprietary health care organization that accepts the responsibility for assignment and supervision of Senior Companions in health, education, social service or related settings such as multi-purpose centers, home health care agencies, or similar establishments. Each volunteer station must be licensed or otherwise certified, when required, by the appropriate state or local government. Private homes are not volunteer stations.

[64 FR 14115, Mar. 24, 1999, as amended at 69 FR 60094, Oct. 7, 2004]