##### § 544.101 Relation of this part to other laws and regulations. #####

This part is separate from, and independent of, the other parts of this chapter, with the exception of part 501 of this chapter, the recordkeeping and reporting requirements and license application and other procedures of which apply to this part. Actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. Differing foreign policy and national security circumstances may result in differing interpretations of similar language among the parts of this chapter. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to those other parts authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to any other provision of law or regulation authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part relieves the involved parties from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.

Note to § 544.101:

The sanctions implemented pursuant to the Weapons of Mass Destruction Trade Control Regulations set forth in part 539 of this chapter are separate and distinct from the sanctions implemented pursuant to this part, even though both programs have been imposed pursuant to the same declaration of national emergency in Executive Order 12938 of November 14, 1994. Accordingly, a “designated foreign person” whose goods, technology, or services are prohibited from being imported into the United States under part 539 is not necessarily a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 544.201(a). Consequently, the property and interests in property of a “designated foreign person” under part 539 are not blocked, unless the “designated foreign person” has separately become a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 544.201(a) or any other part of 31 CFR chapter V. Note, however, that the importation into the United States of goods, technology, or services (other than information or informational materials) produced or provided by a “designated foreign person” under part 539 is prohibited by that part.