##### ยง 5.64 Special provisions for satellite systems. #####

(a) Construction of proposed experimental satellite facilities may begin prior to Commission grant of an authorization. Such construction is entirely at the applicant's risk and does not entitle the applicant to any assurances that its proposed experiment will be subsequently approved or regular services subsequently authorized. The applicant must notify the Commission's Office of Engineering and Technology in writing that it plans to begin construction at its own risk.

(b) Except where the satellite system has already been authorized by the FCC, applicants for an experimental authorization involving a satellite system must submit a description of the design and operational strategies the satellite system will use to mitigate orbital debris, including the following information:

(1) A statement that the space station operator has assessed and limited the amount of debris released in a planned manner during normal operations, and has assessed and limited the probability of the space station becoming a source of debris by collisions with small debris or meteoroids that could cause loss of control and prevent post-mission disposal;

(2) A statement that the space station operator has assessed and limited the probability of accidental explosions during and after completion of mission operations. This statement must include a demonstration that debris generation will not result from the conversion of energy sources on board the spacecraft into energy that fragments the spacecraft. Energy sources include chemical, pressure, and kinetic energy. This demonstration shall address whether stored energy will be removed at the spacecraft's end of life, by depleting residual fuel and leaving all fuel line valves open, venting any pressurized system, leaving all batteries in a permanent discharge state, and removing any remaining source of stored energy, or through other equivalent procedures specifically disclosed in the application;

(3) A statement that the space station operator has assessed and limited the probability of the space station becoming a source of debris by collisions with large debris or other operational space stations. Where a space station will be launched into a low-Earth orbit that is identical, or very similar, to an orbit used by other space stations, the statement must include an analysis of the potential risk of collision and a description of what measures the space station operator plans to take to avoid in-orbit collisions. If the space station operator is relying on coordination with another system, the statement shall indicate what steps have been taken to contact, and ascertain the likelihood of successful coordination of physical operations with, the other system. The statement must disclose the accuracy - if any - with which orbital parameters of non-geostationary satellite orbit space stations will be maintained, including apogee, perigee, inclination, and the right ascension of the ascending node(s). In the event that a system is not able to maintain orbital tolerances, *i.e.,* it lacks a propulsion system for orbital maintenance, a statement disclosing that fact shall be included in the debris mitigation disclosure. Such systems shall also indicate the anticipated evolution over time of the orbit of the proposed satellite or satellites. Where a space station operator requests the assignment of a geostationary-Earth orbit location, it shall assess whether there are any known satellites located at, or reasonably expected to be located at, the requested orbital location, or assigned in the vicinity of that location, such that the station keeping volumes of the respective satellites might overlap. If so, the statement shall identify those parties and describe the measures that will be taken to prevent collisions;

(4) A statement detailing the post-mission disposal plans for the space station at end of life, including the quantity of fuel - if any - that will be reserved for post-mission disposal maneuvers. For geostationary-Earth orbit space stations, the statement shall disclose the altitude selected for a post-mission disposal orbit and the calculations that are used in deriving the disposal altitude. The statement shall also include a casualty risk assessment if planned post-mission disposal involves atmospheric re-entry of the space station. An assessment shall include a statement as to the likelihood that portions of the spacecraft will survive re-entry and reach the surface of the Earth, and the probability of human casualty as a result.

[78 FR 25162, Apr. 29, 2013]