##### ยง 1.823-7 Subscribers of reciprocal underwriters and interinsurers. #####

A subscriber or policyholder of a reciprocal underwriter or interinsurer entitled to the deduction allowed by section 823(b)(2) and paragraph (c)(2) of ยง 1.823-6 shall treat amounts representing savings credit to his individual account for the taxable year as a dividend paid or declared for purposes of computing his taxable income. If a reciprocal credits savings to subscriber accounts after the close of its taxable year, but before the 16th day of the third month following the close of the taxable year, and the reciprocal takes such credits into account as if they had been made on the last day of its taxable year, the subscribers of such reciprocal must take such savings into account as if they had in fact been credited on the last day of the company's taxable year. The subscriber shall take savings credited to his account into account without regard to whether the amounts credited are actually distributed to him in cash. To the extent the insurance premium constituted a deductible expense when paid or accrued, the subscriber's taxable income for the taxable year will be increased and any loss for the taxable year will be decreased, by the amount credited to his account. Amounts credited to a subscriber's account which are taken into income by him and which subsequently are used to absorb losses of the reciprocal shall be treated by the subscriber as an additional insurance expense for the taxable year in which the amounts are absorbed. Such amounts may be deducted in computing taxable income to the extent insurance constitutes an otherwise properly deductible expense for such taxable year.

[T.D. 6681, 28 FR 11118, Oct. 17, 1963]