##### § 1.823-2 Dividends to policyholders. #####

(a) Dividends to policyholders is one of the deductions used, together with wholly tax-exempt interest, in determining tax liability under section 821(a)(2). They are also used in section 822(c)(6) in determining the limitation on certain capital losses and in the application of section 1212. The term “dividends to policyholders” is defined in section 823(2) as dividends and similar distributions paid or declared to policyholders. It includes amounts returned to policyholders where the amount is not fixed in the insurance contract but depends upon the experience of the company or the discretion of the management. Such amounts are not to be treated as return premiums under section 823(1). Similar distributions include such payments as the so-called unabsorbed premium deposits returned to policyholders by factory mutual fire insurance companies. The term “paid or declared” is to be construed according to the method of accounting regularly employed in keeping the books of the insurance company, and such method shall be consistently followed with respect to all deductions (including dividends and similar distributions to policyholders) and all items of income.

(b) If the method of accounting so employed is the cash receipts and disbursements method, the deduction is limited to the dividends and similar distributions actually paid to policyholders in the taxable year. If, on the other hand, the method of accounting so employed is the accrual method, the deduction, or a reasonably accurate estimate thereof, for dividends and similar distributions declared to policyholders for any taxable year will, in general, be computed as follows:

To dividends and similar distributions paid during the taxable year add the amount of dividends and similar distributions declared but unpaid at the end of the taxable year and deduct dividends and similar distributions declared but unpaid at the beginning of the taxable year.

If an insurance company using the accrual method does not compute the deduction for dividends and similar distributions declared to policyholders in the manner stated, it must submit with its return a full and complete explanation of the manner in which the deduction is computed. For the rule as to when dividends are considered paid, see the regulations under section 561.