##### § 203.16 Mailing of checks in payment for livestock purchased for slaughter, for cash and not on credit. #####

(a) The Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration (Packers and Stockyards Programs) recognizes that one who sells livestock to a packer, market agency, or dealer, who is purchasing for slaughter, may not intend to be present at the point of transfer of possession of the livestock, to receive payment, at the time a check in payment for such livestock may be delivered by the purchaser, and may not wish to authorize a representative to receive such a check; or for other reasons such a seller may prefer that such a purchaser make payment by mailing a check within the time limit as prescribed in section 409(a) of the Act. In cases when the seller does not intend to be present, he may use the following form of notification to the purchaser:

I do not intend to be present at the point of transfer of possession of livestock sold by me to (name of packer, market agency, or dealer) for the purpose of receiving a check in payment for such livestock.

I hereby direct (name of packer, market agency, or dealer) to make payment for livestock purchased from me, by mailing a check for the full amount of the purchase price before the close of the next business day following the purchase of livestock and transfer of possession thereof or, in the case of a purchase on a “carcass” or “grade and yield” basis, not later than the close of the first business day following determination of the purchase price.

This does not constitute an extension of credit to (name of packer, market agency or dealer). This is subject to cancellation by me at any time, and if not cancelled by (date), it shall terminate on that date.

If the seller, for reasons other than not being present to receive payment, prefers to have the packer, market agency, or dealer make payment by mailing a check within the time limit as provided in section 409(a), he may use the above form but should not include the statement in the first sentence that he does not intend to be present.

(b) The Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration (Packers and Stockyards Programs) believes that such an agreement would not constitute an extension of credit within the meaning of section 206 of the Act because it would not give the purchaser any more time to issue a check than is provided in section 409(a).

(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0580-0015)(Sec. 401, 42 Stat. 168 (7 U.S.C 221); sec. 407, 42 Stat. 169 (7 U.S.C. 228); sec. 409, as added by sec. 7, 90 Stat. 1250 (7 U.S.C. 228b); 7 CFR 2.17, 2.54; 42 FR 35625; Pub. L. 96-511, 94 Stat. 2812 (44 U.S.C. 3501 *et seq.*); 7 U.S.C. 222 and 228 and 15 U.S.C. 46)[42 FR 49929, Sept. 28, 1977, as amended at 49 FR 39516, Oct. 9, 1984; 68 FR 75388, Dec. 31, 2003]