##### § 1.1014-1 Basis of property acquired from a decedent. #####

(a) *General rule.* The purpose of section 1014 is, in general, to provide a basis for property acquired from a decedent that is equal to the value placed upon such property for purposes of the federal estate tax. Accordingly, the general rule is that the basis of property acquired from a decedent is the fair market value of such property at the date of the decedent's death, or, if the decedent's executor so elects, at the alternate valuation date prescribed in section 2032, or in section 811(j) of the Internal Revenue Code (Code) of 1939. However, the basis of property acquired from certain decedents who died in 2010 is determined under section 1022, if the decedent's executor made an election under section 301(c) of the Tax Relief, Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization, and Job Creation Act of 2010, Public Law 111-312 (124 Stat. 3296, 3300 (2010)). See section 1022. Property acquired from a decedent includes, principally, property acquired by bequest, devise, or inheritance, and, in the case of decedents dying after December 31, 1953, property required to be included in determining the value of the decedent's gross estate under any provision of the Code of 1954 or the Code of 1939. The general rule governing basis of property acquired from a decedent, as well as other rules prescribed elsewhere in this section, shall have no application if the property is sold, exchanged, or otherwise disposed of before the decedent's death by the person who acquired the property from the decedent. For general rules on the applicable valuation date where the executor of a decedent's estate elects under section 2032, or under section 811(j) of the Code of 1939, to value the decedent's gross estate at the alternate valuation date prescribed in such sections, see § 1.1014-3(e).

(b) *Scope and application.* With certain limitations, the general rule described in paragraph (a) of this section is applicable to the classes of property described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of § 1.1014-2, including stock in a DISC or former DISC. In the case of stock in a DISC or former DISC, the provisions of this section and §§ 1.1014-2 through 1.1014-8 are applicable, except as provided in § 1.1014-9. Special basis rules with respect to the basis of certain other property acquired from a decedent are set forth in paragraph (c) of § 1.1014-2. These special rules concern certain stock or securities of a foreign personal holding company and the surviving spouse's one-half share of community property held with a decedent dying after October 21, 1942, and on or before December 31, 1947. In this section and §§ 1.1014-2 to 1.1014-6, inclusive, whenever the words *property acquired from a decedent* are used, they shall also mean *property passed from a decedent,* and the phrase *person who acquired it from the decedent* shall include the *person to whom it passed from the decedent.*

(c) *Property to which section 1014 does not apply.* Section 1014 shall have no application to the following classes of property:

(1) Property which constitutes a right to receive an item of income in respect of a decedent under section 691; and

(2) Restricted stock options described in section 421 which the employee has not exercised at death if the employee died before January 1, 1957. In the case of employees dying after December 31, 1956, see paragraph (d)(4) of § 1.421-5. In the case of employees dying in a taxable year ending after December 31, 1963, see paragraph (c)(4) of § 1.421-8 with respect to an option described in part II of subchapter D.

(d) *Effective/applicability date.* This section applies on and after January 19, 2017. For rules before January 19, 2017, see § 1.1014-1 as contained in 26 CFR part 1 revised as of April 1, 2016.

[T.D. 6500, 25 FR 11910, Nov. 26, 1960, as amended by T.D. 6527, 26 FR 413, Jan. 19, 1961; T.D. 6887, 31 FR 8812, June 24, 1966; T.D. 7283, 38 FR 20825, Aug. 3, 1973; T.D. 9811, 82 FR 6240, Jan. 19, 2017]