##### § 109.103 Civil money penalties. #####

(a) *Assessment.* In the event of consent, or if upon the record developed at the hearing the OCC finds that any of the grounds specified in the notice issued pursuant to § 109.18 of this part have been established, the OCC may serve an order of assessment of civil money penalty upon the party concerned. The assessment order shall be effective immediately upon service or upon such other date as may be specified therein and shall remain effective and enforceable until it is stayed, modified, terminated, or set aside by the OCC or by a reviewing court.

(b) *Payment.* (1) Civil penalties assessed pursuant to subpart A of this part and this subpart B are payable and to be collected within 60 days after the issuance of the notice of assessment, unless the OCC fixes a different time for payment where it determines that the purpose of the civil money penalty would be better served thereby; however, if a party has made a timely request for a hearing to challenge the assessment of the penalty, the party may not be required to pay such penalty until the OCC has issued a final order of assessment following the hearing. In such instances, the penalty shall be paid within 60 days of service of such order unless the OCC fixes a different time for payment. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the OCC may seek to attach the party's assets or to have a receiver appointed to secure payment of the potential civil money penalty or other obligation in advance of the hearing in accordance with section 8(i)(4) of the FDIA (12 U.S.C. 1818(i)(4)).

(2) Checks in payment of civil penalties shall be made payable to the Treasurer of the United States and sent to the OCC. Upon receipt, the OCC shall forward the check to the Treasury of the United States.

(c) *Maximum amount of civil money penalties*—(1) *Statutory formula.* The OCC is required by statute to annually adjust for inflation the maximum amount of each civil money penalty within its jurisdiction to administer. The inflation adjustment is calculated by multiplying the maximum dollar amount of the civil money penalty for the previous calendar year by the cost-of-living inflation adjustment multiplier provided annually by the Office of Management and Budget and rounding the total to the nearest dollar.

(2) *Notice of inflation adjustments.* The OCC will publish notice in the Federal Register of the maximum penalties which may be assessed on an annual basis on, or before, January 15 of each calendar year based on the formula in paragraph (a) of this section, for penalties assessed on, or after, the date of publication of the most recent notice related to conduct occurring on or after November 2, 2015.

[76 FR 48957, Aug. 9, 2011, as amended at 77 FR 66534, Nov. 6, 2012; 77 FR 76356, Dec. 28, 2012; 81 FR 43027, July 1, 2016; 82 FR 8587, Jan. 27, 2017; 83 FR 1518, Jan. 12, 2018]