##### ยง 575.2 Admission; general. #####

(a) In one major respect, the requirements for admission to the United States Military Academy differ from the normal requirements for admission to a civilian college or university; each candidate must obtain an official nomination to the Academy. The young person interested in going to West Point should, therefore, apply for a nomination from one of the persons authorized to make nominations listed in ยง 575.4. In the application, each prospective candidate should request a nomination to the United States Military Academy, and give residence, reasons for wanting to enter the Academy, and status of education and training.

(b) A candidate's mental qualifications for admission are determined by performance on one of the regularly administered College Entrance Examination Board series of tests. The Military Academy will consider scores made on the tests which are offered in December, January, March, and May at more than 700 College Board Test Centers throughout the United States and abroad. In general, a center will be within 75 miles of the candidate's home. Candidates register for the prescribed tests in accordance with the regularly published instructions of the College Board and pay the required fee directly to the College Board.

(c) The candidate's physical qualifications are determined by a thorough medical examination and physical aptitude test. To qualify, a candidate must be in good health, have good vision and hearing, have no deformities, and have the physical strength, endurance, coordination, and agility of active persons in their late teens. The medical examination and physical aptitude tests are held at selected military installations throughout the country (and overseas) on the Thursday and Friday preceding the regularly scheduled March administration of the College Board tests.