##### § 1489.19 Advances. #####

(a) *Policy.* In general, the CCC operates the ATP on a reimbursable basis.

(b) *Exception.* An ATP Participant for generic promotion activities may request an advance of ATP funds from the CCC, provided the ATP Participant meets the criteria for advance payments in 2 CFR part 200. The CCC will not approve any request for an advance submitted later than 3 months after the end of an ATP Participant's program period. At any given time, total payments advanced shall not exceed 40 percent of an ATP Participant's approved generic activity budget for the program period. The CCC will not advance funds to an ATP Participant for brand promotion activities. When approving a request for an advance, the CCC may require the ATP Participant to carry adequate fidelity bond coverage when the absence of such coverage is considered to create an unacceptable risk to the interests of the ATP. Whether an “unacceptable risk” exists in a particular situation will depend on a number of factors, such as, for example, the Participant's history of performance in ATP; the Participant's perceived financial stability and resources; and any other factors presented in the particular situation that may reflect on the Participant's responsibility or the riskiness of its activities.

(c) *Interest.* An ATP Participant shall deposit and maintain in an insured bank account in the United States all funds advanced by the CCC. The account shall be interest-bearing, unless the exceptions in 2 CFR part 200 apply. Interest earned by the ATP Participant on funds advanced by the CCC is not program income. The ATP Participant shall remit any interest earned on the advanced funds to the appropriate entity as set forth in the applicable parts of this title.

(d) *Refunds due the CCC.* An ATP Participant shall fully expend all advances on approved generic promotion activities within 90 calendar days after the date of disbursement by the CCC. By the end of the 90 calendar days, the ATP Participant must submit reimbursement claims to offset the advance and submit a check made payable to CCC for any unexpended balance. The ATP Participant shall make such payment in U.S. dollars, unless otherwise approved in advance by the CCC.