##### § 1489.15 Operational procedures for brand programs. #####

(a) Where CCC approves an application by an ATP Participant to run a brand promotion program that will include brand participants, the ATP Participant shall establish brand program operational procedures. The ATP Participant shall submit to CCC for approval its proposed brand program operational procedures. CCC will notify all ATP Participants in writing in each Participant's approval letter and through the FAS website as to applicable submission dates for and dates for approvals of brand program operation procedures. Such procedures shall include, at a minimum, a brand program application, application procedures, application review criteria, brand participant eligibility requirements, a participation agreement, reimbursement requirements, compliance requirements, reporting and recordkeeping requirements, employment practices, financial management requirements, contracting procedures, and evaluation requirements. The ATP Participant must submit to CCC for approval any proposed changes to already approved brand program operational procedures before implementing such proposed changes.

(b) The ATP Participant shall not enter into any participation agreements with brand participants nor shall it implement any ATP brand activities unless and until CCC has communicated in writing its approval of the proposed operational procedures to the ATP Participant.

(c) Participation agreements between ATP Participants and brand participants: Where CCC approves an ATP Participant's application to run a brand promotion program that will include brand participants, the ATP Participant shall enter into participation agreements with brand participants. Brand participants' size may not exceed 300 percent of the applicable small business size standard. These agreements must:

(1) Specify a time period for such brand promotion and require that all brand promotion expenditures be made within the ATP Participant's approved program period;

(2) Make no allowance for extension or renewal;

(3) Limit reimbursable expenditures to those made in countries and for activities approved in the brand participant's activity plan;

(4) Specify the percentage of promotion expenditures that will be reimbursed, reimbursement procedures, and documentation requirements;

(5) Include a written certification by the brand participant that it either owns the brand of the product it will promote or has exclusive rights to promote the brand in each of the countries in which promotion activities will occur;

(6) Require that all product labels, promotional material, and advertising will identify the origin of the U.S. agricultural commodity as “American”, “Product of the United States of America”, “Product of the U.S.”, “Product of the U.S.A.”, “Product of America”, “Grown in the United States of America”, “Grown in the U.S.”, “Grown in the U.S.A.”, “Grown in America”, “Made in the United States of America,” “Made in the U.S.”, “Made in the U.S.A.”, “Made in America”, or product of, grown in or made in any state or territory of the United States of America spelled out in its entirety, or other U.S. regional designation if approved in advance by the CCC; that such origin identification will be conspicuously displayed in a manner easily observed as identifying the origin of the product; and that such origin identification will conform, to the extent possible, to the U.S. standard of1/6 inch (.42 centimeters) in height based on the lower case letter “o”. The use of the above terms as a descriptor or in the name of the product (*e.g.,* Cincinnati style chili, Gina's American Pizza) does not satisfy the product origin requirement. Phrases “product of”, “grown in” or “made in” are encouraged, but not required. An ATP Participant may request an exemption from this requirement on a case-by-case basis. All such requests shall be in writing and include justification satisfactory to the CCC that this labeling requirement would hinder an ATP Participant's promotional efforts. CCC will determine, on a case by case basis, whether sufficient justification exists to grant an exemption from the labeling requirement. In addition, the CCC may temporarily waive this requirement where the CCC has determined that such labeling will likely harm sales rather than help them. Such determinations will be announced to ATP Participants via an ATP notice issued on the FAS website;

(7) Include a written certification by the brand participant that identifies its size on the date of its application for branded program funding or that it is a U.S. agricultural cooperative;

(8) Require that the brand participant submit to the ATP Participant a statement certifying that any Federal funds received will supplement, but not supplant, any private or third party funds or other contributions to program activities; and

(9) Require the brand participant to maintain all original records and documents relating to program activities for three calendar years following the end of the applicable program period and make such records and documents available upon request to authorized officials of the U.S. Government.