##### ยง 1003.107 Reinstatement after disbarment or suspension. #####

Link to an amendment published at 81 FR 92364, December 19, 2016.

(a) *Expiration of suspension.* Upon notice to the Board, a practitioner who has been suspended will be reinstated to practice before the Board and the Immigration Courts or DHS, or before all three authorities, once the period of suspension has expired, provided that he or she meets the definition of attorney or representative as set forth in ยง 1001.1(f) and (j), respectively, of this chapter. If a practitioner cannot meet the definition of attorney or representative, the Board shall decline to reinstate the practitioner.

(b) *Petition for reinstatement.* A practitioner who has been disbarred or who has been suspended for one year or more may file a petition for reinstatement directly with the Board after one-half of the suspension period has expired or one year has passed, whichever is greater, provided that he or she meets the definition of attorney or representative as set forth in ยง 1001.1(f) and (j), respectively, of this chapter. A copy of such a petition shall be served on the EOIR disciplinary counsel. In matters in which the practitioner was ordered disbarred or suspended from practice before DHS, a copy of such petition shall be served on DHS.

(1) The practitioner shall have the burden of demonstrating by clear and convincing evidence that he or she possess the moral and professional qualifications required to appear before the Board and the Immigration Courts or DHS, or before all three authorities, and that his or her reinstatement will not be detrimental to the administration of justice. The EOIR disciplinary counsel and, in matters in which the practitioner was ordered disbarred or suspended from practice before DHS, DHS may reply within 30 days of service of the petition in the form of a written *response* to the Board, which may include documentation of any complaints filed against the expelled or suspended practitioner subsequent to his or her disbarment or suspension.

(2) If a practitioner cannot meet the definition of attorney or representative as set forth in ยง 1001.1(f) and (j), respectively, of this chapter, the Board shall deny the petition for reinstatement without further consideration. If the petition for reinstatement is found to be otherwise inappropriate or unwarranted, the petition shall be denied. Any subsequent petitions for reinstatement may not be filed before the end of one year from the date of the Board's previous denial of reinstatement. If the petition for reinstatement is determined to be timely, the practitioner meets the definition of attorney or representative, and the petitioner has otherwise set forth by the requisite standard of proof that he or she possesses the qualifications set forth herein, and that reinstatement will not be detrimental to the administration of justice, the Board shall grant the petition and reinstate the practitioner. The Board, in its discretion, may hold a hearing to determine if the practitioner meets all of the requirements for reinstatement.

(c) *Appearance after reinstatement.* A practitioner who has been reinstated to practice by the Board must file a new Notice of Entry of Appearance of Attorney or Representative in each case on the form required by applicable rules and regulations, even if the reinstated practitioner previously filed such a form in a proceeding before the practitioner was disciplined.

[65 FR 39526, June 27, 2000, as amended at 73 FR 76926, Dec. 18, 2008; 77 FR 2015, Jan. 13, 2012]